
ASIA
====

#443679 North Korea's Kim Jong Un says 'open to dialogue' with South Korea, will only use nukes if threatened [East-Asia]

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/north-korean-leader-kim-jong-un-says-nuclear-launch-button-on-his-desk

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 09:21 Hours

SEOUL (REUTERS, AFP) – Kim Jong Un on Monday (Jan 1) warned the United States that he has a “nuclear button” on his desk ready for use if North Korea is threatened, but offered an olive branch to South Korea, saying he was “open to dialogue” with Seoul.

After a year dominated by fiery rhetoric and escalating tensions over North Korea’s nuclear weapons programme, Kim used his televised New Year’s Day speech to call for lower military tensions on the Korean peninsula and improved ties with the South.

“When it comes to North-South relations, we should lower the military tensions on the Korean Peninsula to create a peaceful environment,” Kim said. “Both the North and the South should make efforts.”

Kim said he will consider sending a delegation to the Winter Olympics Games to be held in Pyeongchang, South Korea, in February.

“North Korea’s participation in the Winter Games will be a good opportunity to show unity of the people and we wish the Games will be a success. Officials from the two Koreas may urgently meet to discuss the possibility,” Kim said.

South Korean President Moon Jae In has said North Korea’s participation will ensure safety of the Pyeongchang Olympics and proposed last month that Seoul and Washington postpone large military drills that the North denounces as a rehearsal for war until after the Games.

South Korea’s presidential office said it welcomed Kim's suggestion of sending a delegation to the Games, the Yonhap news agency reported.

Lee Hee Beom, the head of the Pyeongchang Olympic Organising Committee welcomed Kim’s comments. “We actively welcome the North’s suggestion that it is willing to engage in talks for the participation in the Olympics”, Lee told AFP.

“We’ve been preparing for the Olympics on the assumption that the North will eventually take part in the games”, he said, adding that all athletes, including North Koreans, would feel at home during their stay in Pyeongchang.

Rather than encouraging US measures that “threaten the security and peace of the Korean peninsula,” Seoul should instead respond to overtures from the North, Kim said.

Asked by reporters to comment on Kim’s speech, US President Donald Trump simply said “we’ll see, we’ll see”, as he walked into New Year’s eve celebration at Mar-a-Lago, his elite resort in Florida.

The US State Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Kim’s New Year’s address.

“REALITY, NOT A THREAT”

North Korea tested intercontinental ballistic missiles and conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test in September in defiance of international warnings and sanctions, raising fears of a new conflict on the Korean peninsula.

After testing what Pyongyang said was its most powerful intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), capable of delivering a warhead to anywhere in the continental United States, at the end of November, Kim declared his nuclear force complete.

He continued that theme in his New Year’s address, announcing that North Korea would focus on “mass producing nuclear warheads and ballistic missiles for operational deployment” in the coming year.

This, Kim said, made it impossible for the US to start a war against North Korea.

“The entire United States is within range of our nuclear weapons, and a nuclear button is always on my desk. This is reality, not a threat,” he said, while emphasising that “these weapons will be used only if our security is threatened.”

Kim’s customary New Year’s speech is closely watched for indications of the policy direction the unpredictable and reclusive leader is likely to pursue in the coming year.

Beyond listing military accomplishments, Kim also outlined economic gains as part of his two-pronged policy of developing his country’s economy and military.

Despite increased international sanctions imposed over the weapons programme, North Korea made progress in areas like fabrics, shoes and tractors, Kim said.

While Kim is keen to declare his weapons programme a success, he is unlikely to completely end his contentious testing regime, said Scott LaFoy, a ballistic missile analyst at the website NK Pro, which monitors North Korea.

“I’m still very skeptical of the ‘complete’ thing they’ve been talking about, if only because we’ve seen so much activity in regards to the submarine launched ballistic missile programme,” he said. “I think a slowdown (in testing) is very realistic, though.”

Kim seems likely to tone down his weapons testing at least ahead of the Olympics, said Nam Sung Wook, a North Korea expert at Korea University in Seoul.

“What North Korea is most afraid of is being forgotten in the international arena,” he said. “Without launching missiles and conducting a nuclear test, North Korea will be in the spotlight just by attending the Winter Olympics.”

['NORTH KOREA', 'KIM JONG UN', 'US FOREIGN POLICY']

***

#443684 Two policemen wounded in attack on Sulawesi police station [SE-Asia]

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/two-policemen-wounded-in-attack-on-sulawesi-police-station

By: Wahyudi Soeriaatmadja | Indonesia Correspondent

01 Jan 2018, 11:51 Hours

JAKARTA - At least one unidentified man hurled explosives at a police station in the Indonesian city of Makassar on Monday (Jan 1), wounding two policemen, Indonesia's most read news portal Detik.com reported.

The incident occurred at 3:30am local time at the Bontola police station in Makassar, capital of South Sulawesi province. The explosions shattered the windows of the police station and nearby parked cars. The Bontola police chief was among those injured.

"All of a sudden there was an explosion. I went out and I saw a man hurling another object, which then exploded and produced smoke. He then fled," detik.com cited a witness as saying. Bontola is a district in Makassar.

Police have blocked the road in front of the police station. An investigation is underway.

National police spokesman Inspector-General Setyo Wasisto has not responded to a request to comment.

['INDONESIA', 'BOMBINGS/EXPLOSIONS']

***

#443591 Wary world watches as China plays peacemaker [East-Asia]

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/wary-world-watches-as-china-plays-peacemaker

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 05:00 Hours

As 2017 drew to a close, there was a flurry of diplomatic activity in Beijing.

First, just days before Christmas, there was a two-day symposium organised by the Chinese on peace between Israel and the Palestinians with participation by delegations from both sides.

Then on Boxing Day, China held an inaugural trilateral dialogue with Afghanistan and Pakistan - two neighbours at loggerheads with each other - to discuss trust-building, reconciliation and fighting terrorism among other things.

Earlier in November, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi proposed a three-step approach to resolve the Rohingya crisis in Myanmar. This included allowing the return of the over 600,000 Rohingya who had fled violence against them to Bangladesh and economic development of the impoverished Rakhine state to solve the underlying problems that led to the violence.

These events came after Chinese President Xi Jinping said at the Chinese Communist Party's five-yearly congress in October that his country was ready to move "closer to centre stage" in the world and make "greater contributions to mankind".

For some observers, they were signals of a China under Mr Xi that is willing to take a more interventionist approach to foreign affairs after decades of adhering closely to principles set out in the 1950s that included non-interference and peaceful co-existence.

This should be welcome by many in the international community at a time when the United States is in retreat under President Donald Trump's "America First" policy.

After all, the West has been calling for China to do more internationally as a responsible stakeholder rather than free-riding on an international system and refusing to pull its weight, as it is often accused of doing, by hiding behind its non-interference policy.



ST ILLUSTRATION: MANNY FRANCISCO



For example, in an interview with The New York Times in 2014, then US President Barack Obama said China had been free-riding on the global system for 30 years and that no one expected it to do anything. He was referring to the situation in Iraq, where its government was battling the terrorist group Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS). China, which had been making significant investments there in the aftermath of the US-led Iraq war, had kept a low profile over the ISIS crisis.

However, given how the Chinese political and economic systems are different from the West's - one-party authoritarian rule and state capitalism versus liberal democracy and capitalism - will the Chinese approach to dealing with international issues be at odds with the Western powers'?

POLICY SHIFTS OVER THE YEARS

As has been pointed out by analysts, China had not always stuck to its principles of non-interference and peaceful coexistence. Between 1949 and 1978, as Professor Kerry Brown of King's College London has noted, China fought with India and Russia, and with the US in Korea. During the late Mao period, China supported revolutionary struggle in the developing world and in 1979, it fought a border war with Vietnam in response to Hanoi's invasion of Cambodia.

In the three decades since then, however, China stayed close to those principles of the 1950s by following the adage of patriarch Deng Xiaoping of "keeping a low profile and biding your time" while focusing on economic development.

In recent years, though, China has found it hard to keep strictly to its non-interference policy.

This is because with its "go out" policy that began in the 1990s, more and more Chinese companies and citizens have been moving overseas. It is estimated that in 2015, some 20,000 Chinese firms had a presence in over 180 countries and territories, including in unstable regions that sometimes sank into crises.

According to some reports, China made 10 large-scale evacuations of its nationals from 2006 to 2011 because of unrest, wars and natural disasters. Often, huge losses were incurred as assets were abandoned.

In the case of Libya, when the dictator Muammar Gaddafi fell in 2011, China had to airlift more than 30,000 Chinese workers and it lost billions of dollars in investments, loans and assets.

Often, the decision to cut losses was taken because there was neither the stomach nor the capability to intervene in the crisis.

However, as China's capabilities and its economic clout have grown, and as its interests overseas have spread and deepened, it has begun to take a more flexible approach to its non-interference policy to protect those interests.

One case in point is South Sudan, where, two years after it gained independence, civil war broke out in 2013. China, which had invested heavily in its oil resources, decided to wade in to mediate between warring sides when asked to do so by South Sudan's neighbours.

The peace talks it convened in 2015 did not yield concrete results but it secured agreements not to attack oil infrastructure and restarted a stalled peace process, wrote security analysts Xie Yanmei and Casie Copeland recently.

Certainly, political and economic self-interest is involved in China's taking a more active approach in dealing with crises in countries where it has a stake. So in South Sudan, it's about protecting its investments, while in Afghanistan and Pakistan, with which it shares borders, a key consideration is ensuring the security of its borders and preventing terrorism from spilling over to its restive Xinjiang province.

However, as Professor Johan Lagerkvist of Stockholm University pointed out, China also wants to be seen as a responsible power. And the US retreat gives it the "opportunity to look responsible and behave responsibly because there is so much vacuum to be filled regarding global governance".

Indeed, Professor Francois Godement from the European Council for Foreign Relations said Beijing's stepping into the Israel-Palestine issue "shows China beginning to fill gaps left by US diplomacy".

With its greater confidence and improved capabilities, it is also ready to do more, said other analysts.

HOW THE WORLD SEES IT

In the main, the West welcomes, if cautiously, China's efforts to do more than fence-sitting on international issues.

Said Mr Daniel Russel, who was US assistant secretary of state for East Asia and Pacific Affairs from 2013 to last March, in reference to the Rohingya crisis: "It is just and proper for China to seek to make a positive contribution to diplomatic and political challenges in the region."

But he added: "As long as it acts in a manner that is consistent with global norms and universal rights, China has a great deal to offer."

Sharing the same view is Prof Godement: "We frequently request China to become a stakeholder rather than a stockholder. China contributes very little compared with its economic weight. If China acts within international law, we should welcome a change."

The reaction to what China has attempted so far has been mixed.

In the case of Afghanistan and Pakistan, the two neighbours' relations have deteriorated tremendously, with each side accusing the other of providing Islamist militants with safe havens from which to launch attacks across the border.

China has focused its efforts on rebuilding trust between the two sides and strengthening cooperation against terrorism as well as cooperation for the long-term security and development of the impoverished and restive border areas of the two countries.

As pointed out by Chinese international relations expert Su Hao of the China Foreign Affairs University, the Chinese and the West are on the same page on the Afghanistan issue and the West is hoping that China can do more here.

Still, German broadcaster DW, in an article on its website, quoted analysts as saying Chinese efforts in Afghanistan are aimed at containing the crisis but not resolving it, and that China was also trying to restrict US influence in the region.

It quoted a researcher at the University of Heidelberg's South Asia Institute, Mr Siegfried Wolf, as saying China's counterterrorism measures in the region exclude the US and India. "It appears that Beijing is trying to construct a new security bloc in Asia. This, however, does not involve the Sino-Indian security cooperation," he was quoted as saying.

As for China's involvement in the Rohingya crisis in Myanmar, Mr Russel thought China's three-step approach was too vague. "It is not entirely clear to me it can be called a plan," he said.

While Prof Lagerkvist agreed it was lacking in details, he thought it was a wise move, compared with what the West did in Libya. "The economic aspects of restructuring the Rakhine state are definitely viable and defensible and a very wise policy move because without development, continuing poverty will radicalise the poor, (leading) to militant action and responses from the Burmese army," he said.

He added that in Libya, the West had moved hastily to intervene militarily "but they do not have a longer-term backup plan for economic restructuring".

Prof Su noted that China's policy was not to support any one side against another but rather to play the role of a mediator or intermediary as it did in the case of South Sudan. It also wanted to play a constructive role to help a country improve its internal governance.

In the Rohingya case, China was offering its experience in economic development as a model which the Myanmar government could draw on to better the lot of the people in the Rakhine.

He acknowledged that in general, there was a difference between the Chinese and Western approaches, with the West more focused on human rights and the Chinese on stability and development.

But what China was doing would also benefit the West because it would lead to stability and peace in the region. "There is room for the two sides to coordinate and cooperate," he suggested.

Clearly, however, as China becomes more interventionist in its foreign policy, the West is becoming more wary about its intentions.

Said Prof Godement: "A neo-imperial China advancing its own interests is a replay of past behaviour of the former colonialists. A China contributing to humanitarian intervention (for which China has had too restrictive criteria in the past) is a most welcome development. A China mediating regional conflicts falls in between - and thus should be judged on its own merits and case by case."

The Chinese would do well to be more transparent in communicating its intentions to the world in order to reduce mistrust.

As Prof Lagerkvist said, there is too much secrecy and too little transparency in the way China conveys its views to the world.

And because it is such a strong economic and political force and also a rising security force, its neighbours are worried and seeking alliances to hedge against the Chinese military threat.

China would need to promote a version of itself that is "consistent and open-minded and not secretive", he said.

Until that happens, many outside China would continue to mistrust its intentions.

['CHINA', 'FOREIGN POLICY']

***

#443709 Anti-Beijing protesters march in Hong Kong [East-Asia]

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/anti-beijing-protesters-march-in-hong-kong

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 16:50 Hours

HONG KONG (AFP) - Angry protesters marched through Hong Kong on Monday (Jan 1) against what they described as suppression by Beijing, days after Chinese authorities ruled that part of a city rail station would come under mainland law.

Semi-autonomous Hong Kong has been ruled under a "one country, two systems" deal since Britain returned it to China in 1997 and enjoys rights unseen on the mainland, including freedom of speech and an independent judiciary.

But a string of recent incidents have fuelled concern over the erosion of its autonomy and rule of law, including the jailing of prominent pro-democracy activists.

Campaigner Joshua Wong, who joined thousands of protesters at the march Monday, said suppression by China's Communist Party government had worsened in 2017.

Wong, 21, was jailed in August over his role in the Umbrella Movement mass pro-democracy protests of 2014 and is on bail pending an appeal against his six-month sentence.

"In 2018, I hope that every Hong Konger can become an avenger, and win back the core values eroded by Beijing," Wong told AFP.

Many of the protesters were angry at the so-called "co-location" agreement, which would bring part of a new rail terminus in the heart of Hong Kong under mainland law.

The high-speed link to the sprawling southern mainland cities of Shenzhen and Guangzhou is due to open this year, with plans for a joint immigration checkpoint that would see mainland police and other officials based in the Hong Kong terminus.

The station is on Hong Kong's famous harbourfront in Kowloon, not on the border with the mainland further to the north.

China's top legislative body approved the project last week.

The final stage before implementation is a vote by Hong Kong's legislative council, which is weighted towards Beijing.

Pro-democracy lawmakers, campaigners and some in the city's legal community say the plan is a violation of Hong Kong's mini-constitution, the Basic Law, which says national laws do not apply to Hong Kong except for a few exceptions.

Hong Kong's pro-Beijing government argues that the rail set-up is for the convenience of passengers and both local and Chinese authorities insist it does not impinge on the city's autonomy.

Teacher Simon Woo, 47, who joined the march with his wife and daughter said the "survival of Hong Kong is under severe threat", citing the rail terminus agreement as one of the main reasons he was protesting.

"What the Communist Party does and says is irrational. Their attitude towards us is that of an emperor and an autocracy," added Jessica Chan, an education worker in her 30s.

"Hong Kongers cannot accept this." The march was due to culminate outside the city's government offices later Monday.

['HONG KONG PROTESTS', 'CHINA']

***

#443693 Crackdown leads to steep drop in New Year's Eve injuries in the Philippines [SE-Asia]

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/crackdown-leads-to-steep-drop-in-new-years-eve-injuries-in-the-philippines

By: Raul Dancel  | Philippines Correspondent

01 Jan 2018, 13:56 Hours

MANILA - A government crackdown on fireworks slashed the number of injuries from the New Year revelry in the Philippines by more than half, health officials reported on Monday (Jan 1).

In a news conference, Health Secretary Francisco Duque reported that 191 injuries from firecrackers were tallied from Dec 21 to Jan 1. That compared with 524 in the same period a year earlier.

"We are relatively pleased, relative because there are still injuries, but pleased because of the substantial reduction or decrease in fireworks-related injuries," said Mr Duque.

He credited the drop to a police crackdown on firecrackers banned for approximating the power of explosive devices.

President Rodrigo Duterte's orders restricting the use of firecrackers to "community zones" and threatening to sack policemen caught sporadically firing their guns in the air also helped, he said.

The restrictions, though, have led to a more muted welcome to the new year in metropolitan Manila.

Previously, streets would be engulfed in the popping of firecrackers for hours, in the run-up to midnight of Dec 31. Roads and alleys became "war zones", as people spent thousands of pesos on fireworks and pyrotechnics - some with colourful names such as "Judas' belt" - to put up the loudest and most elaborate display in their neighbourhoods.

By early morning, a thick fog and the acrid smell of gunpowder would blanket Manila.

These loud, boisterous celebrations, however, had also made the Philippines among the most dangerous places in the world to mark the new year.

In 2012, at least four people were killed and more than 1,000 injured by firecrackers and stray bullets in the country's deadliest New Year's Eve celebration in 20 years.

This year, many streets were silent, as revellers stuck to their designated areas. A city north of Manila known as a hub of fireworks makers reported a 70 per cent drop in sales of firecrackers.

Mr Duque said there was one incident of a stray bullet hitting a 10-year-old boy, but no one died. There were also no cases of minors ingesting firecrackers.

He added that there only seven cases that required amputation, mostly of fingers and hands, from 19 a year earlier.

The youngest victim was an 11-month-old baby, while the oldest was 96 years old.

['PHILIPPINES', 'FIRE SAFETY RULES']

***

