
POLITICS
========

#443505 Singapore economy grew by 3.5% in 2017, says PM Lee Hsien Loong in New Year message [Politics]

http://www.straitstimes.com/politics/singapore-economy-grew-by-35-in-2017-says-pm-lee-hsien-loong-in-new-year-message

By: Elgin Toh  | Insight Editor

31 Dec 2017, 18:00 Hours

SINGAPORE - Singapore's economy grew by 3.5 per cent in 2017 - more than double the initial forecast - and incomes rose across the board, especially for low- and middle-income earners, said Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong on Sunday (Dec 31).

In his traditional New Year message, he noted that Singapore benefited from the global economic upswing. But more fundamentally, the better-than-expected growth was because Singapore's productivity - long a challenge for the country - has grown.

"Singaporeans are upgrading and learning new skills, while businesses are innovating and adopting new technology. That is how we will stay competitive and ready for the future."

Singapore is finishing the year stronger than it started, and "we are ushering in 2018 with confidence and strength", he added.

In the past five years, productivity growth has languished at between minus 0.2 per cent and 1 per cent despite efforts to help firms and workers upgrade. In 2017, it shot up to between 3 per cent and 3.5 per cent, due to an improving global economy and a tightening of the inflow of foreign workers, said analysts.

Looking ahead to 2018 and beyond, he announced plans to mark the 200th anniversary of 1819, when Stamford Raffles set foot on the island. Singapore marked 50 years of independence in 2015 but "the Singapore Story began way before 1965", he said. "We must understand truly how far back our history reaches, and how complex it is."

The history goes back at least 700 years. Singapore was a maritime emporium in the 14th century, though it declined in later centuries.

Related Story Tan Tock Seng, Whampoa and Manasseh Meyer among those to feature in commemoration of 1819

"We should commemorate this bicentennial appropriately, just as we marked the 150th anniversary in 1969. It is an important milestone for Singapore; an occasion for us to reflect on how our nation came into being, how we have come this far since, and how we can go forward together," he said.

With observers expecting firmer clues this year on who Singapore's fourth prime minister would be - especially with an imminent Cabinet reshuffle - PM Lee said younger ministers will play a bigger role in policymaking. Parliament will be prorogued after the Budget before a new session opens in May. The opening will see the President's Address laying out the Government's agenda for the rest of the term.

He said "this will bear the imprint of the fourth-generation leadership, who are taking on greater responsibilities, and putting forth their ideas for Singapore".

The home front will also see an upgrade of industries and workers' skills, improvements to healthcare, work to raise rail reliability and big infrastructure projects such as the Tuas Megaport, the High Speed Rail link to Malaysia and Changi Airport's Terminal 5.

These domestic priorities are essential investments for the future, which "will stretch way beyond this term of government", he said. "We have to plan well ahead for them."

Looking back on 2017, he said the year began with uncertainty at home and abroad. The economic mood was muted and there were worries about security and terrorism. "But Singaporeans pressed on, undaunted," he said. "We dealt with the urgent concerns, but we looked beyond immediate problems and did not settle for quick fixes."

He noted milestones such as the SGSecure campaign, which raised awareness of the terrorist threat, and changes to enable a reserved presidential election, which he described as "one significant step to strengthen our racial harmony".

Singapore also reaffirmed its strong ties with major powers China and the US, and deepened cooperation with immediate neighbours Malaysia and Indonesia.

The external environment remains uncertain, with tensions over North Korea and elections due in Malaysia and Indonesia.

And as Asean chair this year, Singapore "hopes to take the group forward with... chairmanship themes of 'resilience' and 'innovation'".

['LEE HSIEN LOONG', "NEW YEAR'S DAY", 'SINGAPORE ECONOMY']

***

#443507 Plans to mark 200th anniversary of the founding of modern Singapore in 2019: PM Lee [Politics]

http://www.straitstimes.com/politics/plans-to-mark-200th-anniversary-of-the-founding-of-modern-singapore-in-2019-pm-lee

By: Yuen Sin

31 Dec 2017, 18:01 Hours

SINGAPORE - The Singapore story did not begin in 1965, the year of independence. Instead, it stretches back 700 years, telling a tale of ebb and flow.

One major turning point was in 1819 when Stamford Raffles landed here, setting the island on a different trajectory, noted Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong in his new year day message on Sunday (Dec 31).

"Because of Raffles, Singapore became a British colony, a free port, and a modern city," he said.

He announced plans for Singapore to mark the 200th anniversary of 1819, calling on Singaporeans to "understand truly how far back our history reaches, and how complex it is".

Even before Raffles' arrival at St John's Island on Jan 28 that year, Singapore had a rich history, harking back to the 14th century when it was a maritime emporium. Migrants from China, India and other regions later formed families and communities, "turning an emporium into a home, and eventually a country".

While the SG50 celebrations in 2015 had paid tribute to the Pioneer Generation, there are groups older than independent Singapore which have contributed to its foundations, added PM Lee.

He cited anniversary celebrations he attended in recent months: the 100th anniversaries of the Singapore Malayalee Association, Masjid Khalid and his alma mater Nanyang Girls' High School, and the 150th anniversary of Thong Chai Medical Institution. "Each has contributed to the Singapore Story... Without this history, we could not have made the SG50 journey from third world to first," PM Lee added.

Related Story Tan Tock Seng, Whampoa and Manasseh Meyer among those to feature in commemoration of 1819

The bicentennial commemoration will debunk the conventional narrative that Singapore had been only a backward fishing village before its transformation into a developed country today, say historians.

Organisers of the commemorative activities also said that the commemoration will not take on a "rose-tinted, celebratory" sheen or perpetuate a great man narrative of history since the arrival of colonial powers on the island.

Instead, it will be a reflective attempt to understand the "full essence and complexity" of events in Singapore's 700-year long history, Yale-NUS College president Tan Tai Yong, who sits on the Singapore Bicentennial advisory panel, said at a press briefing last week.

The bicentennial, which wants to be "responsible to history", will not shy away from addressing elements in history that may not be always positive, added Mr Gene Tan, executive director of the newly-created Singapore Bicentennial Office in the Prime Minister's Office.

This includes acknowledging the "squalor and segregation" that existed under colonial rule, and the 1915 Sepoy Mutiny, which saw over 400 Indian soldiers rise against the British during World War I.

Plans for the bicentennial will be overseen by Minister for Social and Family Development Desmond Lee and Minister in the Prime Minister's Office Josephine Teo, with Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat advising.

The bicentennial will pay homage to ground-up organisations that reflect the "organic effervescence" of the story of how Singapore came to be. To that end, the office will engage them throughout 2018, to plan for how stories of various groups' historical roles can be told.

The PMO declined to disclose its budget for the bicentennial activities but said it will be on a smaller scale than SG50.

Prof Tan Tai Yong said the commemorative activities will reflect evidence of Singapore's long history that could even pre-date the 14th century. This runs counter to popular belief that "Raffles landed in Singapore, founded modern Singapore and (it was only then that) our history started".

It is important to debunk the notion that Singapore had existed merely as a sleepy fishing village before Raffles arrived, said Mr Yatiman Yusof, Singapore's non-resident High Commissioner to Kenya, who is also on the bicentennial advisory panel.

"Singapore was a well-known trading centre (in the centuries before that), and Raffles' arrival propelled it into a more energetic and attractive place for business," he added.

['HISTORY', 'LEE HSIEN LOONG', "NEW YEAR'S DAY", 'STAMFORD RAFFLES']

***

#443520 ESM Goh Chok Tong says settling 4G leadership an urgent challenge, hopes next PM can be designated 'before 2018 ends' [Politics]

http://www.straitstimes.com/politics/esm-goh-says-settling-4g-leadership-is-an-urgent-challenge-hopes-next-pm-can-be-formally

By: Elgin Toh  | Insight Editor

31 Dec 2017, 21:00 Hours

SINGAPORE - Emeritus Senior Minister Goh Chok Tong has sketched out what he hopes would be a timeline for the formal designation of the next prime minister - the first time a senior figure from the People's Action Party (PAP) has done so.

According to this timeline, Singaporeans could know who their next leader is before 2018 is over.

Writing in a Facebook post on the last day of 2017, he said the issue of the fourth-generation leadership is "one urgent challenge I would like to see settled".

He added: "Every succession is different, but one thing remains the same: each cohort will have to pick one amongst themselves to lead, and support him.

"I hope the current cohort will do so in 6 to 9 months' time. Then PM (Lee Hsien Loong) can formally designate their choice as his potential successor before 2018 ends."

Mr Lee has said he hopes to hand over the reins of government to the next leader by the time he is 70, in 2022.

Observers say there are just three Cabinet ministers left in the race to be the next PM - Minister for Finance Heng Swee Keat, labour chief and Minister in the Prime Minister's Office Chan Chun Sing, and Minister for Education (Higher Education and Skills) Ong Ye Kung.



The front runners to take over from Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong are (from left) Chan Chun Sing, Heng Swee Keat and Ong Ye Kung. PHOTOS: ST FILE



If one of the three is formally designated Mr Lee's successor, he could be appointed Deputy Prime Minister or First Deputy Prime Minister, as has happened in past successions.

This appointment could happen during the major Cabinet reshuffle that Mr Lee has said will take place in 2018.

There have only been two PM successions since Singapore's independence, and Mr Goh was involved in both. In 1990, he took over as PM from founding prime minister Lee Kuan Yew. In 2004, he handed over to current PM Lee Hsien Loong.

Writing about the task the fourth-generation leadership faces, Mr Goh added in his post: "Whoever is chosen, the team will have to work together, bring in others, and gel to form a cohesive fourth generation Cabinet. They must write a new inspiring chapter for Singapore, be courageous to make difficult decisions, stand tall with integrity, and earn the respect and trust of Singaporeans and the world at large.

Related Story There will be continuity regardless of who becomes next PM, says Chan Chun Sing

"This is my wish for the new year - a Singapore in good hands, a Singapore that all of us build together."

Turning to his own plans for 2018, Mr Goh said he will be helping organisations that serve vulnerable Singaporeans, especially people with special needs.

"I am also focused on a few projects to make Marine Parade a complete home for all ages," he added.

Mr Goh posted the message along with a seaside photo of a sunset, and commented on the rainy end to the year.

He wrote: "2017 did not end with the glorious sunset I had hoped but 2018 offers a fresh start. Even though the weather is wet and gloomy, let us usher in the new year with optimism and sunshine smiles.

"We need to be in good spirits to tackle the pressing and longer term challenges for Singapore."

['GOH CHOK TONG', 'LEE HSIEN LOONG']

***

#443440 Five political hot potatoes of 2017 [Politics]

http://www.straitstimes.com/politics/five-political-hot-potatoes-of-2017

By: Joanna Seow

31 Dec 2017, 05:00 Hours

1. Counting the cost of looming tax hikes

Public debate over government spending was stirred last month after Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong signalled an impending tax hike.

Speaking at the People's Action Party annual convention, he had noted that investments and social spending are costly, and forewarned that "raising taxes is not a matter of whether, but a matter of when".

While there are no details yet as to which tax may be raised, or by how much, some analysts have suggested that the goods and services tax (GST), which is now 7 per cent, could be raised to 8 to 10 per cent.

There has also been speculation that while the announcement for the hike may be made by the next Budget, it may take effect only later, such as after the next general election, which is due by 2021.

At a dialogue earlier this month organised by government feedback arm Reach and the Finance Ministry to discuss the upcoming Budget, Reach chairman and Minister of State for Manpower Sam Tan said that the Government does not take decisions on tax increases lightly, because such hikes come with a very high political cost.

"But if we have to raise it, that is because the reason is stronger than the political cost," he said.

Political observers tell Insight the ruling party has a degree of latitude as to when to introduce the increases, since the next election is not due yet - and revenues are sufficient for this term of government.

But people may call on the Government to be more transparent about how much money is exactly needed to prevent a deficit in future Budgets.

Full-time investor Vincent Tay, for example, says it is hard to argue against the logic of raising taxes, "but we don't know the full picture".

The 35-year-old father of three, with another child on the way, says he will have to bite the bullet and try to make more money to cope with the higher costs.

Looking ahead, Associate Professor Bilveer Singh of the National University of Singapore says he expects the cost of living to be a major political issue next year, due to the uneven distribution of wealth and economic uncertainties.

While the Government has managed the cost of living issue through packages to help the lower-income group, the middle class is feeling squeezed - and this is a key group politically, he notes.

"Anywhere in the world, once you lose this group - and it is usually through economic policies and costs of basic essentials - then the political price will have to be paid," he says.

Deciding on the quantum of the tax hike will also involve treading a fine balance.

Increasing GST by 1 percentage point, for instance, may not be worth the political effort, notes Dr Lam Peng Er, a senior research fellow at the East Asian Institute.

Nominated MP Randolph Tan, an economist at the Singapore University of Social Sciences, adds that people may question the need for a tax hike when a major economy like the United States can appear to afford to do the opposite.

"As scrutiny of public finances heightens, the Government will be challenged on many programmes at a more detailed level and its responsiveness and engagement will determine the level of acceptance of the need for tax changes," he says.

While raising taxes is clearly an unpalatable idea, providing a longer runway before any hike is implemented would help prepare those who are affected, he says, adding: "If there is anything we can learn from the debate on the water price hikes, it is that the apparent speed with which the decision was imposed brought a very negative reaction."

2. Uncertainty over who will be the fourth PM



(From left) Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat, Minister in the PMO Chan Chun Sing and Minister for Education (Higher Education and Skills) Ong Ye Kung are seen as potential PM candidates. PHOTOS: ONG WEE JIN, BH FILE



As the nation approaches the midpoint of the current term of government, speculation is rife as to who is set to take the reins from Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong as Singapore's fourth prime minister. While 2017 did not offer obvious clues as to who this would be, what became clearer is who is out of the running.

In September, then Minister for Social and Family Development Tan Chuan-Jin left the Cabinet to take up his current role as Speaker of Parliament, which is not a key policymaking position.

Mr Tan had been seen as a core member of the fourth-generation (4G) leadership and a possible candidate for the top post, alongside Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat, Minister in the Prime Minister's Office Chan Chun Sing, National Development Minister Lawrence Wong, Minister for Education (Higher Education and Skills) Ong Ye Kung and Minister for Education (Schools) Ng Chee Meng.

The field has since narrowed to three clear contenders: Mr Heng, Mr Chan and Mr Ong.

Next year, a major Cabinet reshuffle is expected and all eyes will be on the post of deputy prime minister. Going by precedence, promotion to that position would be a clear indication as to who is next in line. The finance minister and defence minister roles are also key portfolios.

PM Lee, who took up his role in 2004, was deputy prime minister for 14 years before that, from 1990. Emeritus Senior Minister Goh Chok Tong was first deputy prime minister for five years, from 1985 to 1990, before taking over from founding Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew.

With PM Lee - who turns 66 in February - saying he wants to step down by age 70, in 2022, Singapore's third leadership transition is the most uncertain, at least to the public, to date. It also means the fourth PM will have the shortest run-up phase before assuming the mantle.

Observers say openly identifying a successor soon is important so that Singaporeans and the other core leaders have time to get to know him and his leadership style.

"The next general election is not very far off and Singaporeans will want to suss out who their new leader is," says Dr Felix Tan of SIM Global Education. "Moreover, whoever takes over the heavy responsibility of being PM will also need to ensure he or she will be able to connect with the citizens as well as to prove his or her competence on the regional and international front," he says, adding that 4G ministers could be tasked with managing Asean matters as Singapore takes over the leadership of the grouping next year.

While the group of potential prime ministers may not have as much experience in the Cabinet as their predecessors - given that PM Lee has said he intends to step down by 2022 - Dr Norshahril Saat, a fellow at ISEAS - Yusof Ishak Institute, says PM Lee has devised other mechanisms to coach them, such as the addition of more coordinating ministers who can mentor younger ministers.

Despite the importance of this issue, several Singaporeans tell Insight they have not been focused on it this past year. Retiree Vivienne Tan, 67, says she is not concerned as whoever is picked will not be making policy decisions on his or her own - because the Cabinet works together as a team and major decisions need to be approved by Parliament.

However, she feels the current group touted to be in the running has not been given a long enough runway yet. "The next PM should have a major role in the Cabinet, as a full minister, for some 10 years. Five or six years doesn't seem like enough. PM Lee needs time to nurture his successor," she says.

Others like Mr Sammy Sang, 50, are paying close attention. He hopes a new PM will bring with him a fresh approach to governing.

"I hope the fourth-generation leader will be someone who will fight for the people, and be more transparent about government processes and governance," says Mr Sang, who is self-employed.

He wants to be given a clear idea of the successor soon, so that he has more time to assess the person before the next election. The father of three boys aged seven to 22 adds: "It's an important issue because it affects my children's future."

3. Some unhappiness over reserved election



President Halimah Yacob taking the oath of office, flanked by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon. PHOTO: REUTERS



When President Halimah Yacob was sworn in on Sept 14 this year, she became Singapore's first woman president.

The former unionist and Speaker of Parliament has had a busy start to her term - visiting social service organisations and hosting Singaporeans and foreign dignitaries at the Istana.

But in the days leading up to and following Sept 14, there was palpable unhappiness and anger among some groups about the way in which she had come into power.

Hashtags such as #notmypresident were used in online discussions and a silent protest was held at Hong Lim Park.

This year's election was the first to be reserved for Malay candidates following changes passed by Parliament last year to ensure the highest office of the land reflects Singapore's multiracial society.

Two others had applied to contest the election - businessmen Salleh Marican and Farid Khan - but they did not qualify, and Madam Halimah won in a walkover.

Former presidential candidate Tan Cheng Bock had also challenged the timing of the reserved election in court.

Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has said that he knew the reserved presidential election would be unpopular, and would cost his party votes. But he said at a dialogue in September that he strongly believed it was the right thing to do because Singapore has "not yet arrived at an ideal state of accepting people of a different race".

Some Singaporeans tell Insight they feel the walkover did not give Madam Halimah a chance to prove herself to the nation.

Says Mr Henry Ng, 68, a retired logistics team leader: "The process was not very tactful. It seemed like the decision-making process was very one-sided."

Curriculum manager Phebe Poon, 33, sees the walkover as "a big embarrassment overseas", running counter to efforts to portray Singapore as a world-class country.

Others such as Ms Winda Shahani, 40, a cashier, say the election did not bother them much. "As long as Singapore is a safe country, and (we are) happy, I'm okay," she adds.

The event divided Singaporeans, including Malays, says ISEAS - Yusof Ishak Institute fellow Norshahril Saat, although he notes that what was said on social media cannot be assumed to be representative of the entire population.

Political watchers say the anger was directed not at Madam Halimah but at the election process and the speed with which the legislative amendments were made.

"They could have made the constitutional amendments and had them take effect the next round," says National University of Singapore political scientist Reuben Wong.

Observers say voters felt a sense of powerlessness, as the reserved election and the raising of the bar for private sector candidates made the walkover seem like fait accompli. But whether unhappiness will spill over to next year is in doubt. Attention will likely turn to bread-and-butter issues, like the economy, the cost of living and terrorism, the analysts add.

"It helps that Madam Halimah is not a token figure and has credibility, experience and the temperament for the role," says Associate Professor Wong.

Dr Felix Tan from SIM Global Education reckons the issue is likely to crop up again in the campaign trail leading up to the next general election. "In the long run, the ruling party might face some political fallout due to its decision to change the elected presidency, but I highly doubt it will, for instance, lose a constituency or some parliamentary seats (because of it)," he says.

He adds that on a more positive note, the reserved election has made Singaporeans more aware of the presidency and its roles and responsibilities.

4. MRT reliability takes a hit



SMRT officials examining the two trains on the East-West Line which collided at Joo Koon MRT station last month, injuring 38 people. ST FILE PHOTO



MRT disruptions this year have caused students to be late for exams and workers to be late for work. For some, the stakes were even higher.

Nurse Katherine Wong, 32, says there have been instances of surgery being delayed because some colleagues were held up. "The patient is there but the nurses are not, so the procedure cannot start," she says.

Frequent and frustrating delays aside, things seemed to go from bad to worse this year for public transport operator SMRT.

It faced several high-profile incidents, such as the flooding of an MRT tunnel, a train collision and a lightning strike.

In October, a poorly maintained pump system resulted in flood waters up to waist deep that shut down a large segment of the North-South Line till the next day, affecting 231,000 commuters.

A month later, two trains on the East-West Line collided at Joo Koon MRT station, injuring 38 people. It was the first such incident in over two decades.

Serious questions were raised about work culture and internal accountability in the company, after the investigation following the flooding incident revealed that some staff had falsified maintenance records over a seven-month period without doing the work.

The issue has become a political hot potato because it irritates many Singaporeans, not just commuters, as breakdowns have the potential to impact work and the economy, and tarnish the Singapore brand, says East Asian Institute senior research fellow Lam Peng Er.

Beyond that, political observers tell Insight that SMRT's woes, if not resolved, have wider implications on how Singaporeans view the Government's ability to keep the country running smoothly and efficiently.

"The social compact in Singapore is the trade-off of Western political freedoms and the assertion of individual rights for good governance and political stability, so we expect things to run like clockwork here," says Dr Lam.

Agreeing, Associate Professor Bilveer Singh of the National University of Singapore (NUS) says that when the trains break down, "the performance legitimacy of the ruling party gets a dent".

Going forward, people may expect the Government to step in further to improve the situation.

"Rightly or wrongly, some Singaporeans think that the Government's troubleshooting has not been on the ball enough," says Dr Lam.

A fundamental question needs to be answered, adds Prof Singh: "At the end of the day, are the trains running only to make money or are they a public good on which almost everything else depends?"

So far, a committee has been formed by the Land Transport Authority (LTA) and national water agency PUB to prevent tunnel flooding incidents from recurring.

Last year, LTA bought over all of SMRT's operating assets under the New Rail Financing Framework. This gives the Government more control over the network, as it can replace and upgrade ageing assets promptly to enhance reliability.

Transport Minister Khaw Boon Wan has promised to raise rail reliability to one million MKBF - or mean kilometres between failure - by 2020, up from the current 400,000 MKBF.

The issue of reliability will continue to play on people's minds next year, says NUS political scientist Reuben Wong, adding it casts a spotlight on the whole of Singapore Inc.

For Ms Wong, the buck still stops with SMRT, for now, as she feels it should have the engineering expertise to carry out proper maintenance of the rail network.

But she says the Government should take firmer action if things do not improve. "The incidents may affect tourism also and that affects Singapore's economy," she adds.

5. Steamed up over water price hike



Madam Yeong Soh Yeng, a freelance pre-school teacher, and her Indonesian maid, Madam Fatimah Dulhadi, save water from the washing machine's rinse cycles to wash the floors and flush toilets. ST FILE PHOTO



Singapore's first water price hike in 17 years was hotly debated after it was announced in the Budget in February.

After an increase on July 1 this year and a second on July 1 next year, water prices will be 30 per cent higher, which the Government said is necessary due to rising costs and for investments in water infrastructure for production and sewerage.

Higher Utilities-Save rebates were unveiled to help families cope. To reduce water wastage, national water agency PUB has also been replacing water closets in eligible households with newer models that can cut water use by half.

Still, the hike attracted public criticism. Netizens dug up PUB's annual report and highlighted the profits PUB made last year. The authorities said there were profits only because of government grants. Without the grants, PUB ran an operating deficit, it noted.

About 100 people turned up at Hong Lim Park in March to protest against the hikes. Also, government feedback arm Reach found that 43 per cent of those it polled about the Budget disagreed that it was reasonable to increase water prices to fund higher costs of production and encourage conservation.

Mrs Claire Goh, 45, a housewife, says that she sees the price increase as a big issue because water is a necessity.

"If electricity prices increase, I can decide to use the fan instead of the air-conditioner, but there's nothing much else we can do about water, we can't not drink water or not wash our hands."

She says she already takes steps to conserve water at home, such as collecting rainwater. She would like to see greater incentive for households that make such an effort.

Part-time banquet worker Chung Soon Seng, 59, is worried about prices going up across the board when businesses face higher water costs. "For people with money it will not be a problem, but for people like me with less money it will be a problem, especially if the (Goods and Services Tax) also goes up."

He adds, however, that he understands the need to invest in increasing water production as the population has grown. "We can try to do our part by conserving water."

But not all Singaporeans seem to feel the same way, and Singapore University of Social Sciences economist Randolph Tan says that some have questioned the need to increase prices. This is despite the fact that pricing water too low may result in wasteful behaviour - which in turn threatens long-term water security.

"While the public has understood and accepted the fact that water is a scarce resource in Singapore, there is less appreciation of the fact that the problem of scarcity could easily worsen," he says.

Associate Professor Tan, who is a Nominated MP, also says that while the first round of the increase has been implemented well so far, debate on the issue will likely be revived next year when the second phase kicks in.

In the second phase, the price per cubic metre will go up by 35 cents. This is bigger than the increase of 29 cents for the first phase.

But he notes that a continuing debate may not be a bad thing. It may be what is needed to change behaviour - such as by discouraging excessive and wasteful usage - which the hike was designed to do in the first place, he says.

Political analyst Mustafa Izzuddin adds that while the water price hike is unlikely to be a political hot potato on its own next year, related issues, like rising cost of living and social inequality, will be hot.

"A much improved communication strategy - as well as rolling out programmes and schemes to cushion the impact for the lower income and most vulnerable in our society - could help to mitigate the unhappiness," he says.

['INSIGHT', 'POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT', 'TAXATION']

***

#439549 Price of plenty: How past success slows present change [Singapore]

http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/price-of-plenty-how-past-success-slows-present-change

By: --

17 Dec 2017, 05:00 Hours

As a journalist in a media industry hit hard by disruption, I have not exactly rushed to embrace change.

But recent events have forced open my eyes not just to the urgent need for news organisations to transform themselves, but to help their employees through the process.

A friend from the training sector who has helped firms undergoing major change said for those affected, it can feel like they are going through the stages of grief : reject change as they see no need for it; resist change as it is unsettling and difficult; being open to change but confused as to what it means for them; being ready to embrace change and keen to help lead it.

Picking up on that train of thought, another friend from the finance sector - who has experienced far more disruption in her career than I have - observed that while companies are quite good at equipping people with the hard skills they need for transformation, most do not pay enough attention to the soft skills.

I think she is right. By soft skills, I mean the skills that have as their focus not tasks but people.

Why do soft skills matter? Because a large part of the work in leading change is persuading people of the need to leave behind a status quo they find comfortable and comforting, so as to move somewhere strange and unfamiliar, and more often than not make sacrifices along the way as well.

ST ILLUSTRATION: CHOY



Professor John Kotter of Harvard Business School, who has studied organisational change for decades, uses a fable to illustrate the challenge of change and how to overcome it.

Once upon a time, or so the story goes, there was a colony of penguins living in the Antarctic. They enjoyed a comfortable life; the only problem was their iceberg was melting.

The cracks in the giant hunk of ice that had been their home for generations were, however, underwater and unnoticed by everyone - everyone except Fred, a loner who liked to watch the wind and the sky and who had noticed a change in the climate.

He went on deep dives to examine the state of their iceberg under the water surface and was alarmed by what he saw.

The story then goes on to describe the huge effort to persuade other penguins in the colony of the urgent need to change - fast!

Fred turned first to take-charge Alice who helped him get a hearing with the colony's council of elders.

Not all the elders believed Fred, so they put together a separate smaller group to lead the change.

Wise Louis built this disparate group into a team, which then worked out a vision for a new nomadic way of life for the colony, where the penguins would no longer become attached to any one iceberg but be ready to move to a better, safer home when needed.

They then communicated the vision to the rest of the colony, neutralised naysayers like a penguin named NoNo and empowered other penguins to help bring change about.

To be honest, there are days when I am pessimistic and worry that Singapore Inc will not make it. So many of us seem to have grown so comfortable with the way things are. We have no desire to leave our iceberg, even though there are signs it is melting. But on good days, I am optimistic. I recall inspiring stories of corporate turnaround - GE, Apple, Nissan and Lego, to name a few.

Since this is a fable, it has a happy ending in which the penguins not only move to a bigger, better iceberg, but also retool their culture so as to become more open and ready to adapt to future change.

The moral of the story? Big change does not happen easily - not in businesses, not in school systems, not in nations.

"Even if an objective observer can clearly see that costs are too high, or products are not good enough, or shifting customer requirements are not being adequately addressed, needed change can still stall because of inwardly focused cultures, paralysing bureaucracy, parochial politics, a low level of trust, lack of teamwork, arrogant attitudes, a lack of leadership in middle management, and the general human fear of the unknown," Prof Kotter writes in his book Leading Change.

"To be effective, a method designed to alter strategies, re-engineer processes or improve quality must address these barriers and address them well."

What is also telling is Prof Kotter's diagnosis that change often fails because of a lack of leadership. That in turn is likely due to past success, which breeds a corporate culture that prizes continuity and nurtures managers but not leaders.

"Unfortunately for us today, this emphasis on management has often been institutionalised in corporate cultures that discourage employees from learning how to lead. Ironically, past success is usually the key ingredient in producing this outcome," he writes.

And the difference between management and leadership?

"Management is a set of processes that can keep a complicated system of people and technology running smoothly. The most important aspects of management include planning, budgeting, organising, staffing, controlling and problem-solving.

"Leadership is a set of processes that creates organisations in the first place or adapts them to significantly changing circumstances. Leadership defines what the future should look like, aligns people with that vision, and inspires them to make it happen despite the obstacles."

And only leadership, he adds, can "blast through the many sources of corporate inertia".

There's plenty to mull over in those paragraphs, because Singapore as a nation has enjoyed a decades-long streak of economic success, which in turn has spilled over to many of its businesses - both large and small.

Fortunes have been made and many have prospered. But how has this good run tilted the balance in favour of management over leadership? Is it time to reset the balance?

When I speak of leadership, I am not holding out for some strong man - or woman - with the smarts and charisma to push through major change on his or her own.

I am talking about having a critical mass of people who believe that it is possible to succeed at change, brave enough to take the necessary risks and committed enough to work long hours to see it through.

Many people here know in their heads that the Singapore economy must transform. Otherwise, why would the Government set aside $4.5 billion for an Industry Transformation Programme?

Its aim is to bring together stakeholders in each of the 23 key industries to change the way companies and workers operate.

Two months ago, Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat urged employers, the business community, unions and workers to push on with change efforts. "If we persist... we will continue to make good progress," he said during a community visit.

But questions remain.

Are businesses changing fast enough? Do they and their workers have what it takes to compete in the face of disruption? What if the hoped-for transformation fails to work its way through the economy?

To be honest, there are days when I am pessimistic and worry that Singapore Inc will not make it. So many of us seem to have grown so comfortable with the way things are. We have no desire to leave our iceberg, even though there are signs it is melting.

But on good days, I am optimistic. I recall inspiring stories of corporate turnaround - GE, Apple, Nissan and Lego, to name a few.

I think of how well resourced Singapore Inc is today, in terms of its well-educated workforce, financial reserves and established brand.

It is my hope that this present testing time of disruption will forge a new generation of leaders, pushed by circumstances to imagine a new future and take risks to bring it about.

Speed, though, is of the essence. The pace of change globally has accelerated to a punishing degree and that looks set to continue. Those who would lead change cannot tarry.

Future prosperity hangs in the balance, and Singapore's whole way of life.

['DISRUPTION', 'ECONOMIC GROWTH', 'SINGAPORE CONNECT']

***

