
SINGAPORE
=========

#443691 Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat to deliver Budget 2018 on Feb 19 [Singapore]

http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/budget-2018-to-be-delivered-on-feb-19

By: Nur Asyiqin Mohamad Salleh

01 Jan 2018, 12:56 Hours

SINGAPORE - Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat will deliver this year’s Budget on Feb 19.

It is expected to draw much attention, coming after Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said last November that taxes are set to go up as government spending increases.

Experts expect an announcement at this year's Budget that the goods and services tax (GST) will be raised within the next few years.

GST has remained at 7 per cent for the last decade.

There will be live television and radio coverage of the Budget statement, and members of public can also tune in to a live webcast on the Singapore Budget website, said the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in a statement on Monday.

The Budget statement will be uploaded on the website after it has been delivered in Parliament.

Real-time updates of key announcements will also be posted on the MOF's Facebook page and Twitter account.

MOF in its statement said it encourages the public to continue sending in their views and suggestions on issues relevant to Budget 2018.

The ongoing feedback exercise will close on Jan 12, and members of public can submit their comments through channels including the Budget site and several platforms of government feedback unit Reach, including its Facebook page.

Those keen on giving feedback on the Budget can also participate in a live question and answer session on government e-feedback platform Reach’s Facebook page on Jan 4, held from 8pm to 9pm.

This will be chaired by Mr Liang Eng Hwa, Chairman of the Government Parliamentary Committee (GPC) for Finance and Trade & Industry, and a member of the Reach Supervisory Panel member, as well as Ms Cheryl Chan, a member of the GPC for Finance and Trade & Industry.

Singaporeans can also share their views and suggestions in person at the two Reach pre-Budget Listening Points.

One will be at the Tanjong Pagar Plaza concourse areas on Jan 9 from 11.30am to 2pm, and another at the Singapore Management University, near Kou Fu Foodcourt, on Jan 12 from 11.30am to 2pm.

After the Budget is delivered, Parliament will debate the Budget statement the following week.

This will be followed by the debate on the spending plans of various ministries, which typically takes two weeks.

['BUDGET', 'MINISTRY OF FINANCE']

***

#443727 Couples say 'I do' again in event to promote family bonding [Singapore]

http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/couples-say-i-do-again-in-event-to-promote-family-bonding

By: Adrian Lim | Transport Correspondent

01 Jan 2018, 20:36 Hours

SINGAPORE - They have been married for 54 years, but on Monday (Jan 1), Mr Ang See Kee, 80, and Madam Chua Ai Tee, 75, said "I do" again to each other.

They were among 32 couples who spent the first day of the year reaffirming their marriage vows outside Botanic Gardens MRT station, as part of a grassroots initiative to promote family bonding.

Among the participants, Mr Ang and Madam Chua held the honour of being married for the longest number of years. "Vows are just a formality. What is more important is to stay loving and tolerant of each other," Madam Chua said in Mandarin.

This is the 10th year in which couples renewed their vows together, in the initiative organised by the People's Association Family Life Champions (FLCs), who are grassroots leaders tasked with promoting family life in the community.

The FLCs involved this year hail from the Yew Tee, Ayer Rajah, Clementi, Keat Hong, Limbang and Yuhua divisions.

For this year's edition, called Mass Romantic Trip, the 32 couples also took the train to HarbourFront Centre, where they enjoyed a banquet dinner with friends and relatives.

They were joined by Marsiling-Yew Tee GRC MP Alex Yam, who presented the couples with their renewal of vows certificates.

The couples came decked out in their traditional wear. Mr Chan Kok Fee, 66, sported a batik shirt and Madam Tan Ley Choo, 59, a matching batik-dress, which were both sewn by Madam Tan herself. "We bought the cloth while holidaying in Penang. My wife is a very good seamstress," Mr Chan said proudly.

For Mr Abdul Rahim Safari, 53, and Madam Zaleha Samad, 46, it would be the second time they are renewing their vows in their 27 years of marriage.

Madam Zaleha, an administrative assistant, said: "As the years go by, and we go through happy and sad times, the vows become more meaningful when we say the words to one another."

['FAMILIES', 'GRASSROOTS ORGANISATIONS', 'WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS']

***

#443682 Man, 29, charged after stabbing wife in Geylang [Courts-Crime]

http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/courts-crime/man-29-charged-after-stabbing-wife-in-geylang

By: Adrian Lim | Transport Correspondent

01 Jan 2018, 11:20 Hours

SINGAPORE - A 29-year-old man was charged in court on Monday (Jan 1) after he allegedly stabbed his wife along Lorong 16 Geylang two days ago.

Jayselan N. Chandrasegar used a knife with a 10cm-long blade to stab Ms Mayuri Krishnakumar, 26, twice in her abdomen and twice on her lower back, according to court documents.

This caused her to suffer puncture wounds on those parts of her body.

The incident, which was captured on video by a bystander and shared on social media, happened at 11.47am on Saturday (Dec 30).

Jayselan was arrested shortly after by police in Guillemard Road at about 12.15pm.

If found guilty and convicted under the charge of voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous means, Jayselan could be sent to prison for life, or jailed for up to 15 years, and may also be fined or caned.

He will be remanded at the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) for two weeks for a psychiatric evaluation, and his case will be mentioned again after.

Jayselan, a former patient, requested to be kept in a solitary environment at IMH, claiming that he was not able to stay with any other person, as this would affect his condition. The judge said his request will be conveyed to the institute.

Jayselan also requested a phone call but this was turned down. He was heard swearing as he was taken out of the dock.

After his charge was read to him, Jayselan said: “Mayuri is my wife. For the mistake that she did, I admit that what I did to her was wrong.”

“I only stabbed her twice, not more than that. I did not think that I’ll do such a thing to my wife. I have a child at home, I couldn’t take it that she did this to me and my child,” he added, without elaborating further.

Ms Krishnakumar, who was warded at Tan Tock Seng Hospital after the attack, was said to be in a stable condition, according to earlier reports.

['CRIME', 'CRIMES AGAINST WOMEN']

***

#443687 Prata, laksa, cake? Here are ST readers' first meals of 2018 [Food]

http://www.straitstimes.com/lifestyle/food/what-did-you-eat-for-your-first-meal-of-2018

By: Lydia Lam

01 Jan 2018, 11:59 Hours

SINGAPORE - Some kicked off with prata and fiery laksa. Others opted for simpler fare like porridge and instant noodles.

Foodies took to Instagram to post their first meals of 2018 on Monday (Jan 1).

The Straits Times food website, known as ST Food, put out a call for people to post photos of their first meals last week. At 1pm on New Year's Day, there were more than 200 posts. This went up to more than 450 by 6.30pm.

To join, take a photo of your meal and post it on Instagram. Remember to use the hashtags #firstmeal2018 and #stfoodtrending.

Happy drooling and happy new year!

1. A bowl of chicken soup

ST's veteran food critic Wong Ah Yoke takes the lead with soul food - a bowl of chicken soup to start the year with.

2. Ozoni soup

ST's Life editor Tan Hsueh Yun began her year with a brightly coloured ozoni soup.

It is a dish traditionally eaten by the Japanese on New Year's Day.

Ms Tan's version came with home-made dashi broth, vegetables, chicken, mushroom and toasted mochi.

3. Curry puffs

Veteran para-swimmer Theresa Goh started her year with crisp, golden curry puffs from 1A crispy puffs.

"I spent the last moments of 2017 with loved ones and I'm excited for what 2018 holds," she wrote.

4. Indomie instant noodles with roe

Petrina Loh, the chef and owner of Morsels restaurant in Dempsey Hill, had a simple meal of Indomie instant noodles, brightened by a sprinkling of salmon roe.

5. Mee goreng in Malaysia

Jazz musician Jeremy Monteiro kicked off his new year with mamak mee or Indian mee goreng with a fried egg on top in Petaling Jaya, Malaysia.

6. Champagne and roti prata - separately

Hotelier and restaurateur Loh Lik Peng had champagne instead - a bottle of Taittinger Prestige Rose at Como Dempsey.

He followed up with actual food - roti prata.

7. English breakfast

Chef-owner of Wild Rocket in Mount Emily Willin Low had a breakfast of eggs, sausage, bacon and beans.

8. Crispy pork leg

Russell Yu, director of one-Michelin-starred restaurant Iggy's, had crispy pata or pork leg "to make me move faster this 2018".

9. Korean sliced rice cake soup

Sun Kim, chef and owner of the one-Michelin-starred restaurant Meta in Keong Saik Road had a hearty tteokguk or sliced rice cake soup, a Korean dish traditionally eaten during the Korean New Year.

10. Porridge with German sausage

Andre Huber, director of Huber's Butchery, made comfort food for his first meal - porridge with Wienerli sausage.

11. Minced meat noodles

Chef-owner Mervin Goh, 45, of Japanese restaurant Akashi at Orchard Parade Hotel, gave a shout-out to hawker food with a meal of minced meat noodles.

12. Vegeterian degustation menu

Prive Group chairman Yuan Oeij had a vegetarian degustation menu at Empress Chinese restaurant.

13. A discounted Christmas meal

Tampines GRC MP Baey Yam Keng had a Christmas meal at his parents' place. The set, which included turkey, achar and pork knuckle, had been on offer at a supermarket.

14. Nasi lemak

Chua Chu Kang GRC MP Zaqy Mohamad had a meal of nasi lemak.

15. Thai for Tiffany Teo

Mixed martial arts (MMA) exponent Tiffany Teo had Thai food for her first meal.

16. Wanton mee, rojak and orh luak

National netballer Charmaine Soh had a feast of local favourites including wanton mee, rojak and oyster omelette.

Here's what else is on our readers' #firstmeal2018 menu. Do join in the fun!

#stfoodtrending #firstmeal2018 #stfoodtrending #firstmeal2018 A post shared by HH (@hsienhui.tong) on Dec 31, 2017 at 9:02pm PST

["NEW YEAR'S DAY", 'FOOD AND DRINK', 'WEB SPECIALS']

***

#443686 New year, new challenges for 3 Singaporeans with worthy causes [Singapore]

http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/new-year-new-challenges

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 11:58 Hours

The New Year is a time when many people welcome the fresh start with ambitious personal challenges .

The Straits Times speaks to three individuals with New Year's resolutions that embody a wider purpose - from helping kidney patients to reaching out to inmates and saving the environment.

Not buying new clothes for a greener earth



Ms Pamela Low gets her drink orders in reusable cups and without straws from Mr Henry Chua Kay Chee, who runs Fresh Fruit and Juices stall at the National University of Singapore. ST PHOTO: GAVIN FOO



This year, undergraduate Pamela Low wants to go on a diet.

It is not sugar and carbs that the 22-year-old wants to consume less of though, but disposables.

The environmentally-conscious student already carries around a reusable bag for her shopping, and her own bottle and container when buying food and drink for take-out.

READ MORE HERE

He wants to end bias against convicts



Mr Michael Teoh, 52, was 16 when he faced a murder charge, which was later reduced. He now helps inmates to return to society.ST PHOTO: GAVIN FOO



The festive season is a period for people to take a break, but former inmate Michael Teoh has been spending time thinking about helping others with a similar past to his.

His New Year's resolution is to help more people in prison and halfway houses. For those released from jail, he wants to help them transition to society. Problems they face include finding jobs and a home, as well as mending relationships with their loved ones, he said.

Doc to ride 1,200km for kidney patients



Dr Terence Kee, 47, resolved to do more for his patients after his father's death from kidney failure in August last year. ST PHOTO: MARK CHEONG

As a senior consultant renal physician at Singapore General Hospital, Dr Terence Kee, 47, treats about 20 to 25 kidney transplant patients every day.

However, when his 76-year-old father - who had suffered from kidney failure for three years - died in August last year, Dr Kee resolved to do more for his patients.

READ MORE HERE

["NEW YEAR'S DAY", 'CLIMATE CHANGE', 'PRISONS', 'KIDNEY DISEASES']

***

