
WORLD
=====

#443666 North American revellers welcome 2018, rounding up global New Year celebrations   [World]

http://www.straitstimes.com/world/revellers-in-europe-welcome-2018-freezing-new-york-set-to-ring-in-the-new-year

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 02:44 Hours

NEW YORK (AFP) – A frigid North America closed out the world’s New Year celebrations on Monday (Jan 1), after a chilly Europe followed Asia and Australasia in nursing a Jan 1 hangover.

In New York’s Times Square, around two million people dressed in thick coats and snow gear faced the coldest New Year’s Eve in a century as temperatures dropped to 9 deg F (minus 12.7 deg C).

They were subjected to tight security measures, with the “Crossroads of the World” seeing its largest security perimeter in history – a focus around the world due to fears that crowds could be targets for vehicle and other terror attacks.

New Orleans revellers wearing party hats and blowing in noisemakers celebrated with street music, boat cruises and the traditional fleur-de-lis drop.

Millions gathered on Brazil’s Copacabana Beach in Rio de Janeiro to watch not just the traditional pyrotechnics, but also singer Anitta, who gained worldwide recognition through her viral video performance of “Vai Malandra” (“Come on bad girl”) in a mini-bikini.

Bikinis were the last thing on the minds of North American revellers, who followed Rio and South America in welcoming the New Year.

Much of the United States and Canada was bundled up to cope with unusually cold weather.

Hader Ghulam, 27, a Pakistani student based in Oklahoma, told AFP he was ready for the cold in Times Square, and felt “pretty safe” given all the security measures.

They were surrounded by police under extra-tight security following two recent Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) group-inspired attacks in the city.

Barricades and sand-filled trucks were in place, more than 20 roads were closed, and bomb-sniffing dogs assisted more officers on the ground.

TOUGHEST SECURITY IN YEARS

In London, more than 100,000 ticket-holders gazed up at spectacular fireworks from the banks of the River Thames, before dancing to “Auld Lang Syne.” Keeping with tradition, Big Ben in the Houses of Parliament rang in Britain’s new year. Although the clock tower is undergoing renovations, the chimes were turned back on especially for the celebrations.

In Britain, despite the capital being hit by four terror attacks in 2017, Scotland Yard said it had fewer police officers on the streets of London than during last year’s event.

Meanwhile, tens of thousands of people participated in Edinburgh’s Hogmanay celebrations – one of the world’s biggest street parties.

Other European cities were similarly awash with crowds despite the winter cold.

In Paris, hundreds of thousands of partygoers braved a storm warning and drizzle to line the Champs-Elysees avenue before a dazzling light show and a fireworks display lit up the Arc de Triomphe.

Nearly 2,000 security forces were deployed to protect the crowd – out of about 140,000 mobilised nationwide to guard against the militant threat which authorities describe as “still high”.

“Life goes on and they (the militants) are on the retreat,” said one reveller, who gave his name only as Stephane.

In Berlin, special tents were set up at the Brandenburg Gate to assist female victims of sexual harassment, following mass assaults on women in Cologne two years ago.

In Cologne itself, 1,400 police were mobilised, street lighting was improved and more video cameras were installed.

As the midnight chimes neared in western Europe, Hong Kong had already moved into 2018 with a stunning fireworks display over Victoria Harbour. Thousands watched as “shooting stars” were fired from the rooftops of skyscrapers during a musical spectacular.

AROUND THE WORLD

Three hours earlier, Australia had rung in the New Year with a magnificent show of rainbow-coloured fireworks cascading from Sydney Harbor Bridge.

Partygoers marked the nation’s legalisation of gay marriage, but under tight security.

The stronger police presence included some officers carrying semi-automatic rifles in Sydney and bollard barriers against vehicles.

Earlier in December, one man was killed and more than a dozen hurt when a man plowed a car into a crowd of pedestrians in Melbourne.

Elsewhere, Dubai celebrated with a laser show on the world’s tallest tower, the 828m Burj Khalifa.

Moscow likewise entered the new year with major boulevards and 36 key sites decked out.

In Africa, Cameroon President Paul Biya used the occasion to remind his citizens of their “duty” to “maintain republican order” as well as “social peace and national unity” amid unrest in the country’s Anglophone regions.

In a year-end speech, Gabon’s President Ali Bongo vowed “radical change in governance” for the country where around a third of the population lives below the poverty line.

LOOKING AHEAD TO 2018

ISIS’ defeat in Iraq and Syria was one of the year’s major stories in 2017, but terrorism remains a threat.

Donald Trump stole the news spotlight after making his debut as US President last January, with his “America first” policies and a bombastic personal style that has shaken up international diplomacy.

“We are MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN, and much faster than anyone thought possible!” Trump said in a tweet to close out the year.

Political and diplomatic earthquakes set to rumble into 2018 include the Middle East crisis between Saudi Arabia and its allies against Qatar, and the humanitarian disaster in Yemen.

In Europe, further talks on Brexit will help shape the region’s future trade relationship while Russia is set to host the football World Cup amid frictions with the West.

['AUSTRALIA', "NEW YEAR'S DAY"]

***

#443694 2 injured, thousands flee as fireworks malfunction at Australian beach [Australia-NZ]

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/australianz/2-injured-thousands-flee-as-fireworks-malfunction-at-australian-beach

By: Lydia Lam

01 Jan 2018, 14:17 Hours

Thousands of revellers fled and two people suffered minor injuries after a fireworks malfunction at a beach party in Australia on New Year's Eve (Dec 31), Australian media said.

A crowd had gathered at Terrigal Beach in New South Wales on Sunday night for the New Year's Eve fireworks from 9pm, News.com.au reported.

An explosion sparked a fire on a display barge metres away from the crowd, with two pyrotechnicians jumping into the sea to escape the flames.

The police said the two men suffered minor injuries when the barge caught fire at 9pm, sending many fireworks into the air all at once, ABC.net.au reported.

Witnesses reportedly said fireworks were spraying into the crowd after the blast.

The two pyrotechnicians, both men, were rescued from the water by passing boats and later taken to hospital for treatment.

Emergency services including the police, ambulances and marine rescuers arrived shortly after and the crowd was evacuated.

The event organiser for the NYE Terrigal Fireworks Festival said in a statement on Facebook on New Year's Day that the period between 5pm and 9pm "was truly amazing".

The organiser said the operators believe there was an explosion in a canister which led to multiple detonations.

It added that "no one was injured".

The incident will be investigated by New South Wales' workplace health and safety regulator Safe Work NSW.

Australia is one of the first countries to ring in the New Year and is known for its crossing-year parties, with tourists flying to the country for the occasion.

['AUSTRALIA', "NEW YEAR'S DAY"]

***

#443679 North Korea's Kim Jong Un says 'open to dialogue' with South Korea, will only use nukes if threatened [East-Asia]

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/north-korean-leader-kim-jong-un-says-nuclear-launch-button-on-his-desk

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 09:21 Hours

SEOUL (REUTERS, AFP) – Kim Jong Un on Monday (Jan 1) warned the United States that he has a “nuclear button” on his desk ready for use if North Korea is threatened, but offered an olive branch to South Korea, saying he was “open to dialogue” with Seoul.

After a year dominated by fiery rhetoric and escalating tensions over North Korea’s nuclear weapons programme, Kim used his televised New Year’s Day speech to call for lower military tensions on the Korean peninsula and improved ties with the South.

“When it comes to North-South relations, we should lower the military tensions on the Korean Peninsula to create a peaceful environment,” Kim said. “Both the North and the South should make efforts.”

Kim said he will consider sending a delegation to the Winter Olympics Games to be held in Pyeongchang, South Korea, in February.

“North Korea’s participation in the Winter Games will be a good opportunity to show unity of the people and we wish the Games will be a success. Officials from the two Koreas may urgently meet to discuss the possibility,” Kim said.

South Korean President Moon Jae In has said North Korea’s participation will ensure safety of the Pyeongchang Olympics and proposed last month that Seoul and Washington postpone large military drills that the North denounces as a rehearsal for war until after the Games.

South Korea’s presidential office said it welcomed Kim's suggestion of sending a delegation to the Games, the Yonhap news agency reported.

Lee Hee Beom, the head of the Pyeongchang Olympic Organising Committee welcomed Kim’s comments. “We actively welcome the North’s suggestion that it is willing to engage in talks for the participation in the Olympics”, Lee told AFP.

“We’ve been preparing for the Olympics on the assumption that the North will eventually take part in the games”, he said, adding that all athletes, including North Koreans, would feel at home during their stay in Pyeongchang.

Rather than encouraging US measures that “threaten the security and peace of the Korean peninsula,” Seoul should instead respond to overtures from the North, Kim said.

Asked by reporters to comment on Kim’s speech, US President Donald Trump simply said “we’ll see, we’ll see”, as he walked into New Year’s eve celebration at Mar-a-Lago, his elite resort in Florida.

The US State Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Kim’s New Year’s address.

“REALITY, NOT A THREAT”

North Korea tested intercontinental ballistic missiles and conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test in September in defiance of international warnings and sanctions, raising fears of a new conflict on the Korean peninsula.

After testing what Pyongyang said was its most powerful intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), capable of delivering a warhead to anywhere in the continental United States, at the end of November, Kim declared his nuclear force complete.

He continued that theme in his New Year’s address, announcing that North Korea would focus on “mass producing nuclear warheads and ballistic missiles for operational deployment” in the coming year.

This, Kim said, made it impossible for the US to start a war against North Korea.

“The entire United States is within range of our nuclear weapons, and a nuclear button is always on my desk. This is reality, not a threat,” he said, while emphasising that “these weapons will be used only if our security is threatened.”

Kim’s customary New Year’s speech is closely watched for indications of the policy direction the unpredictable and reclusive leader is likely to pursue in the coming year.

Beyond listing military accomplishments, Kim also outlined economic gains as part of his two-pronged policy of developing his country’s economy and military.

Despite increased international sanctions imposed over the weapons programme, North Korea made progress in areas like fabrics, shoes and tractors, Kim said.

While Kim is keen to declare his weapons programme a success, he is unlikely to completely end his contentious testing regime, said Scott LaFoy, a ballistic missile analyst at the website NK Pro, which monitors North Korea.

“I’m still very skeptical of the ‘complete’ thing they’ve been talking about, if only because we’ve seen so much activity in regards to the submarine launched ballistic missile programme,” he said. “I think a slowdown (in testing) is very realistic, though.”

Kim seems likely to tone down his weapons testing at least ahead of the Olympics, said Nam Sung Wook, a North Korea expert at Korea University in Seoul.

“What North Korea is most afraid of is being forgotten in the international arena,” he said. “Without launching missiles and conducting a nuclear test, North Korea will be in the spotlight just by attending the Winter Olympics.”

['NORTH KOREA', 'KIM JONG UN', 'US FOREIGN POLICY']

***

#443696 Ten people killed in Iran unrest on Sunday -state television [Middle-East]

http://www.straitstimes.com/world/middle-east/protests-flare-up-in-iran-after-rouhani-calls-for-calm

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 15:00 Hours

DUBAI (REUTERS) - Ten people were killed during street protests in Iran on Sunday, state television said on Monday (Jan 1).

The nationwide protests have drawn in tens of thousands of people and represent the boldest challenge to Iran's leadership since pro-reform unrest in 2009. Calls for more demonstrations on Monday raise the possibility of prolonged instability.

"In the events of last night, unfortunately, a total of about 10 people were killed in several cities," state television said while showing footage of damage from the demonstrations. It gave no further details of the deaths.

Unsigned statements posted on social media urged Iranians to demonstrate again in the capital Teheran and 50 other urban centres.

Iran is a major OPEC oil producer and regional power but frustrations have grown at home while the country is deeply involved in Syria and Iraq as part of a battle for influence with rival Saudi Arabia.

Those foreign interventions are also furling anger in the Islamic Republic because Iranians want their leaders to create jobs instead of engaging in costly proxy wars.

The unrest erupted in the second city of Mashhad against price rises but it swiftly spread and turned into political rallies.

Some called on Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei to step down and chanted against a government they described as thieves.

Demonstrators say they are angry over corruption and economic hardship in a country where youth unemployment reached 28.8 per cent last year.

Protests continued overnight even though President Hassan Rouhani appealed for calm. In remarks carried on state TV, he said Iranians had the right to criticise authorities but also warned of a crackdown.

"The government will show no tolerance for those who damage public properties, violate public order and create unrest in the society," Rouhani said. Hundreds of people have been arrested but security forces have largely shown restraint.

Iran's leaders believe they can count on support from many of the generation that took part in the 1979 revolution because of their ideological commitment and the economic gains they have made under the government, analysts say.

Two people were shot dead in the southwestern town of Izeh on Sunday and several others were injured, ILNA news agency quoted a member of parliament as saying. It was not clear if the two dead were part of the 10 cited on state television.

"I do not know whether yesterday's shooting was done by rally participants or the police and this issue is being investigated," local member of parliament Hedayatollah Khademi was quoted as saying.

Regional governor Mostafa Samali told the semi-official news agency Fars that just one person had been killed and that the incident was unrelated to the protests and the alleged shooter had been arrested.

Police in the centre of Teheran fired water cannon on Sunday to try to disperse demonstrators, according to pictures on social media.

Demonstrations turned violent in Shahin Shahr in central Iran. Videos showed protesters attacking the police, turning over a car and setting it on fire. Reuters could not immediately verify the authenticity of the footage.

There were also reports of demonstrations in the western cities of Sanandaj and Kermanshah as well as Chabahar in the southeast and Ilam and Izeh in the southwest.

The protests were the biggest since unrest in 2009 that followed the disputed re-election of then-President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.

Videos showed people in central Tehran chanting: "Down with the dictator!" in an apparent reference to Khamenei.

Protesters in Khorramabad in western Iran shouted: "Khamenei, shame on you, leave the country alone!"

The government said it would temporarily restrict access to the Telegram messaging app and Instagram, owned by Facebook, state television said. There were also reports that mobile access to the internet was being blocked in some areas.

"Iran, the Number One State of Sponsored Terror with numerous violations of Human Rights occurring on an hourly basis, has now closed down the Internet so that peaceful demonstrators cannot communicate. Not good!" US President Donald Trump tweeted on Sunday.

Rouhani said earlier the US president had no right to sympathise with Iranians since he "called the Iranian nation terrorists a few months ago".

Israel's intelligence minister on Monday voiced encouragement for the protests but said Israeli policy was not to get involved in Teheran's internal affairs.

['IRAN', 'PROTESTS']

***

#443703 For Trump, a glittering gala ends a winter vacation rooted in routine [United-States]

http://www.straitstimes.com/world/united-states/for-trump-a-glittering-gala-ends-a-winter-vacation-rooted-in-routine

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 15:48 Hours

WEST PALM BEACH, Florida (NYTIMES) - As he walked down the red carpet to begin his New Year's Eve celebrations Sunday night (Dec 31), President Donald Trump stopped to predict "a tremendous year" ahead.

It certainly appeared to be getting off to a lavish start at his Mar-a-Lago club. Before the president arrived - flanked by his 11-year-old son, Barron, and his wife, Melania - a string of guests decked out in jewels, fur and sequins had streamed in, having paid hundreds of dollars each to celebrate with the president and his family.

But for all the opulence of the annual gala, it was also something else for Trump: familiar. He has been ringing in the new year at Mar-a-Lago for more than a decade, surrounded by his private club members in the glittering halls of the renovated home of the cereal heiress Marjorie Merriweather Post.

It was perhaps the fitting culmination of 10 days of vacation firmly rooted in old routines: days at his golf course, nights at Mar-a-Lago, and a smattering of Twitter posts and meetings punctuating the moments in between.

"Donald Trump knows that he will not be measured on how much time he spent here," said Christopher Ruddy, chief executive of Newsmax Media and a longtime confidant. "He will be measured on the results, and be judged on how the economy has done and how he's protected the security of the country."

He is certainly not the first president to indulge in multiple days of golf or evade the press pool that trails him in white vans. And he and Melania Trump, the first lady, did have breaks from the routine. They made phone calls to military members stationed overseas, spoke on the phone with children tracking Santa Claus, attended evening Mass on Christmas Eve and visited a local fire station.

But Trump's pattern of private phone calls and meetings, golf course mornings and private club evenings appeared far more relaxed than the vacation habits of his immediate predecessor, Barack Obama, who in 2015 spent a day crisscrossing a Hawaiian island to socialise with family and friends, go to the beach with his daughters and visit his grandfather's grave.

And compared with the explosive news announcements that often drove coverage during his predecessor's Christmas vacations - implementing sanctions against North Korea in late 2014, and last year, retaliating against Russia for its meddling in the presidential election - the news this time has been fuelled primarily by Trump's words instead of his actions.

When asked Sunday night about the North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's assertion that he has a nuclear button on his desk, the president said: "We'll see. We'll see."

Before the celebration Sunday, the president jabbed at some of his favourite targets even amid his holiday Twitter greetings as he wished "friends, supporters, enemies, haters, and even the very dishonest Fake News Media, a Happy and Healthy New Year."

Here at Mar-a-Lago, the property the president refers to as the "winter White House," Trump is often without aides and at home among his people, mingling and tweeting. This trip, he also had previously unannounced meetings and phone calls with a variety of professional golfers and politicians, including Gov Rick Scott of Florida.

He also opened up to people outside his usual circle. On Thursday, Trump sat down for 30 minutes with a New York Times reporter who approached him in the middle of lunch at the Trump International Golf Club.

And Saturday, Trump reached out to a group he affectionately refers to as his "bridge people" - the clump of supporters who religiously gather on the bridge corner near Mar-a-Lago every day they know the president is there. After the motorcade passed by, with Trump flashing a wide grin and two thumbs up through the window, two cars with Secret Service members circled back. They passed out flag pins and swept about 16 people back to the club.

On Sunday night, guests needed tickets for a four-course meal featuring the Trump iceberg wedge salad (with his trademark Roquefort dressing), Maine lobster ravioli, pan-seared sea bass and sliced tenderloin, and baked Alaska.

Guests crossed a lengthy red carpet with Champagne flutes and martini glasses in their hands to get to the ballroom doors. In a nod to the brisk 60-degree Florida weather and the time of year, many women wrapped themselves in fluffy white and black fur stoles, some trailing down to the floor. Among them: Louise Linton, who arrived with her husband, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, in a white fur capelet. "Great year," Mnuchin said of the coming 12 months. "Big year!"

Trump's elder daughter, Ivanka, and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, arrived with two of their children. They were soon followed by Trump's sons Eric, who arrived with his wife, Lara, and Donald Trump Jr, who brought one of his sons.

Fox Business host Lou Dobbs and former New York Mets first baseman Keith Hernandez also joined the celebration.

"It's a very exciting evening," said Steve Levine, co-owner of Jose Graterol Designs, a South Florida design studio that fashioned the gala for the fourth time. He described this year's theme as an "elegant, modern fantasy garden," brought to life through dozens of 5-foot-long white, cream and silver roses suspended from the ceiling, a metallic color scheme, and sequined and velvet table linens and chairs.

Inside the ballroom, the president found himself happily surrounded: A crowd of guests, breaking into applause and cheers, raised their cellphones to capture him shaking hands.

['DONALD TRUMP', 'US POLITICS']

***

