
ASIA
====

#443679 North Korea's Kim Jong Un says 'open to dialogue' with South Korea, will only use nukes if threatened

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/north-korean-leader-kim-jong-un-says-nuclear-launch-button-on-his-desk

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 09:21 Hours

SEOUL (REUTERS, AFP) – Kim Jong Un on Monday (Jan 1) warned the United States that he has a “nuclear button” on his desk ready for use if North Korea is threatened, but offered an olive branch to South Korea, saying he was “open to dialogue” with Seoul.

After a year dominated by fiery rhetoric and escalating tensions over North Korea’s nuclear weapons programme, Kim used his televised New Year’s Day speech to call for lower military tensions on the Korean peninsula and improved ties with the South.

South Korean President Moon Jae In has said North Korea’s participation will ensure safety of the Pyeongchang Olympics and proposed last month that Seoul and Washington postpone large military drills that the North denounces as a rehearsal for war until after the Games.

North Korea tested intercontinental ballistic missiles and conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test in September in defiance of international warnings and sanctions, raising fears of a new conflict on the Korean peninsula.

Despite increased international sanctions imposed over the weapons programme, North Korea made progress in areas like fabrics, shoes and tractors, Kim said.

While Kim is keen to declare his weapons programme a success, he is unlikely to completely end his contentious testing regime, said Scott LaFoy, a ballistic missile analyst at the website NK Pro, which monitors North Korea.

Kim seems likely to tone down his weapons testing at least ahead of the Olympics, said Nam Sung Wook, a North Korea expert at Korea University in Seoul.

“Without launching missiles and conducting a nuclear test, North Korea will be in the spotlight just by attending the Winter Olympics.”

['NORTH KOREA', 'KIM JONG UN', 'US FOREIGN POLICY']

***

#443684 Two policemen wounded in attack on Sulawesi police station

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/two-policemen-wounded-in-attack-on-sulawesi-police-station

By: Wahyudi Soeriaatmadja | Indonesia Correspondent

01 Jan 2018, 11:51 Hours

JAKARTA - At least one unidentified man hurled explosives at a police station in the Indonesian city of Makassar on Monday (Jan 1), wounding two policemen, Indonesia's most read news portal Detik.com reported.

Jan 1, 2018, 11:51 am SGTJAKARTA - At least one unidentified man hurled explosives at a police station in the Indonesian city of Makassar on Monday (Jan 1), wounding two policemen, Indonesia's most read news portal Detik.com reported.

The incident occurred at 3:30am local time at the Bontola police station in Makassar, capital of South Sulawesi province.

Police have blocked the road in front of the police station.

['INDONESIA', 'BOMBINGS/EXPLOSIONS']

***

#443591 Wary world watches as China plays peacemaker

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/wary-world-watches-as-china-plays-peacemaker

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 05:00 Hours

As 2017 drew to a close, there was a flurry of diplomatic activity in Beijing.

For some observers, they were signals of a China under Mr Xi that is willing to take a more interventionist approach to foreign affairs after decades of adhering closely to principles set out in the 1950s that included non-interference and peaceful co-existence.

After all, the West has been calling for China to do more internationally as a responsible stakeholder rather than free-riding on an international system and refusing to pull its weight, as it is often accused of doing, by hiding behind its non-interference policy.

However, given how the Chinese political and economic systems are different from the West's - one-party authoritarian rule and state capitalism versus liberal democracy and capitalism - will the Chinese approach to dealing with international issues be at odds with the Western powers'?

POLICY SHIFTS OVER THE YEARS As has been pointed out by analysts, China had not always stuck to its principles of non-interference and peaceful coexistence.

In the case of Libya, when the dictator Muammar Gaddafi fell in 2011, China had to airlift more than 30,000 Chinese workers and it lost billions of dollars in investments, loans and assets.

However, as China's capabilities and its economic clout have grown, and as its interests overseas have spread and deepened, it has begun to take a more flexible approach to its non-interference policy to protect those interests.

China, which had invested heavily in its oil resources, decided to wade in to mediate between warring sides when asked to do so by South Sudan's neighbours.

Certainly, political and economic self-interest is involved in China's taking a more active approach in dealing with crises in countries where it has a stake.

HOW THE WORLD SEES IT In the main, the West welcomes, if cautiously, China's efforts to do more than fence-sitting on international issues.

Said Mr Daniel Russel, who was US assistant secretary of state for East Asia and Pacific Affairs from 2013 to last March, in reference to the Rohingya crisis: "It is just and proper for China to seek to make a positive contribution to diplomatic and political challenges in the region."

China contributes very little compared with its economic weight.

China has focused its efforts on rebuilding trust between the two sides and strengthening cooperation against terrorism as well as cooperation for the long-term security and development of the impoverished and restive border areas of the two countries.

As pointed out by Chinese international relations expert Su Hao of the China Foreign Affairs University, the Chinese and the West are on the same page on the Afghanistan issue and the West is hoping that China can do more here.

Still, German broadcaster DW, in an article on its website, quoted analysts as saying Chinese efforts in Afghanistan are aimed at containing the crisis but not resolving it, and that China was also trying to restrict US influence in the region.

As for China's involvement in the Rohingya crisis in Myanmar, Mr Russel thought China's three-step approach was too vague.

Prof Su noted that China's policy was not to support any one side against another but rather to play the role of a mediator or intermediary as it did in the case of South Sudan.

In the Rohingya case, China was offering its experience in economic development as a model which the Myanmar government could draw on to better the lot of the people in the Rakhine.

But what China was doing would also benefit the West because it would lead to stability and peace in the region.

Clearly, however, as China becomes more interventionist in its foreign policy, the West is becoming more wary about its intentions.

A China contributing to humanitarian intervention (for which China has had too restrictive criteria in the past) is a most welcome development.

['CHINA', 'FOREIGN POLICY']

***

#443709 Anti-Beijing protesters march in Hong Kong

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/anti-beijing-protesters-march-in-hong-kong

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 16:50 Hours

HONG KONG (AFP) - Angry protesters marched through Hong Kong on Monday (Jan 1) against what they described as suppression by Beijing, days after Chinese authorities ruled that part of a city rail station would come under mainland law.

Many of the protesters were angry at the so-called "co-location" agreement, which would bring part of a new rail terminus in the heart of Hong Kong under mainland law.

The high-speed link to the sprawling southern mainland cities of Shenzhen and Guangzhou is due to open this year, with plans for a joint immigration checkpoint that would see mainland police and other officials based in the Hong Kong terminus.

Pro-democracy lawmakers, campaigners and some in the city's legal community say the plan is a violation of Hong Kong's mini-constitution, the Basic Law, which says national laws do not apply to Hong Kong except for a few exceptions.

Teacher Simon Woo, 47, who joined the march with his wife and daughter said the "survival of Hong Kong is under severe threat", citing the rail terminus agreement as one of the main reasons he was protesting.

['HONG KONG PROTESTS', 'CHINA']

***

#443693 Crackdown leads to steep drop in New Year's Eve injuries in the Philippines

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/crackdown-leads-to-steep-drop-in-new-years-eve-injuries-in-the-philippines

By: Raul Dancel  | Philippines Correspondent

01 Jan 2018, 13:56 Hours

MANILA - A government crackdown on fireworks slashed the number of injuries from the New Year revelry in the Philippines by more than half, health officials reported on Monday (Jan 1).

In a news conference, Health Secretary Francisco Duque reported that 191 injuries from firecrackers were tallied from Dec 21 to Jan 1.

The restrictions, though, have led to a more muted welcome to the new year in metropolitan Manila.

In 2012, at least four people were killed and more than 1,000 injured by firecrackers and stray bullets in the country's deadliest New Year's Eve celebration in 20 years.

A city north of Manila known as a hub of fireworks makers reported a 70 per cent drop in sales of firecrackers.

['PHILIPPINES', 'FIRE SAFETY RULES']

***

