
POLITICS
========

#443505 Singapore economy grew by 3.5% in 2017, says PM Lee Hsien Loong in New Year message

http://www.straitstimes.com/politics/singapore-economy-grew-by-35-in-2017-says-pm-lee-hsien-loong-in-new-year-message

By: Elgin Toh  | Insight Editor

31 Dec 2017, 18:00 Hours

SINGAPORE - Singapore's economy grew by 3.5 per cent in 2017 - more than double the initial forecast - and incomes rose across the board, especially for low- and middle-income earners, said Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong on Sunday (Dec 31).

In his traditional New Year message , he noted that Singapore benefited from the global economic upswing.

Singapore is finishing the year stronger than it started, and "we are ushering in 2018 with confidence and strength", he added.

In the past five years, productivity growth has languished at between minus 0.2 per cent and 1 per cent despite efforts to help firms and workers upgrade.

Singapore marked 50 years of independence in 2015 but "the Singapore Story began way before 1965", he said.

The history goes back at least 700 years.

It is an important milestone for Singapore; an occasion for us to reflect on how our nation came into being, how we have come this far since, and how we can go forward together," he said.

With observers expecting firmer clues this year on who Singapore's fourth prime minister would be - especially with an imminent Cabinet reshuffle - PM Lee said younger ministers will play a bigger role in policymaking.

And as Asean chair this year, Singapore "hopes to take the group forward with... chairmanship themes of 'resilience' and 'innovation'".

['LEE HSIEN LOONG', "NEW YEAR'S DAY", 'SINGAPORE ECONOMY']

***

#443507 Plans to mark 200th anniversary of the founding of modern Singapore in 2019: PM Lee

http://www.straitstimes.com/politics/plans-to-mark-200th-anniversary-of-the-founding-of-modern-singapore-in-2019-pm-lee

By: Yuen Sin

31 Dec 2017, 18:01 Hours

SINGAPORE - The Singapore story did not begin in 1965, the year of independence.

Even before Raffles' arrival at St John's Island on Jan 28 that year, Singapore had a rich history, harking back to the 14th century when it was a maritime emporium.

Instead, it will be a reflective attempt to understand the "full essence and complexity" of events in Singapore's 700-year long history, Yale-NUS College president Tan Tai Yong, who sits on the Singapore Bicentennial advisory panel, said at a press briefing last week.

The bicentennial, which wants to be "responsible to history", will not shy away from addressing elements in history that may not be always positive, added Mr Gene Tan, executive director of the newly-created Singapore Bicentennial Office in the Prime Minister's Office.

Prof Tan Tai Yong said the commemorative activities will reflect evidence of Singapore's long history that could even pre-date the 14th century.

This runs counter to popular belief that "Raffles landed in Singapore, founded modern Singapore and (it was only then that) our history started".

It is important to debunk the notion that Singapore had existed merely as a sleepy fishing village before Raffles arrived, said Mr Yatiman Yusof, Singapore's non-resident High Commissioner to Kenya, who is also on the bicentennial advisory panel.

['HISTORY', 'LEE HSIEN LOONG', "NEW YEAR'S DAY", 'STAMFORD RAFFLES']

***

#443520 ESM Goh Chok Tong says settling 4G leadership an urgent challenge, hopes next PM can be designated 'before 2018 ends'

http://www.straitstimes.com/politics/esm-goh-says-settling-4g-leadership-is-an-urgent-challenge-hopes-next-pm-can-be-formally

By: Elgin Toh  | Insight Editor

31 Dec 2017, 21:00 Hours

SINGAPORE - Emeritus Senior Minister Goh Chok Tong has sketched out what he hopes would be a timeline for the formal designation of the next prime minister - the first time a senior figure from the People's Action Party (PAP) has done so.

Observers say there are just three Cabinet ministers left in the race to be the next PM - Minister for Finance Heng Swee Keat, labour chief and Minister in the Prime Minister's Office Chan Chun Sing, and Minister for Education (Higher Education and Skills) Ong Ye Kung.

The front runners to take over from Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong are (from left) Chan Chun Sing, Heng Swee Keat and Ong Ye Kung.

If one of the three is formally designated Mr Lee's successor, he could be appointed Deputy Prime Minister or First Deputy Prime Minister, as has happened in past successions.

There have only been two PM successions since Singapore's independence, and Mr Goh was involved in both.

In 1990, he took over as PM from founding prime minister Lee Kuan Yew.

['GOH CHOK TONG', 'LEE HSIEN LOONG']

***

#443440 Five political hot potatoes of 2017

http://www.straitstimes.com/politics/five-political-hot-potatoes-of-2017

By: Joanna Seow

31 Dec 2017, 05:00 Hours

1.

Counting the cost of looming tax hikes Public debate over government spending was stirred last month after Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong signalled an impending tax hike.

Speaking at the People's Action Party annual convention, he had noted that investments and social spending are costly, and forewarned that "raising taxes is not a matter of whether, but a matter of when".

At a dialogue earlier this month organised by government feedback arm Reach and the Finance Ministry to discuss the upcoming Budget, Reach chairman and Minister of State for Manpower Sam Tan said that the Government does not take decisions on tax increases lightly, because such hikes come with a very high political cost.

Political observers tell Insight the ruling party has a degree of latitude as to when to introduce the increases, since the next election is not due yet - and revenues are sufficient for this term of government.

Looking ahead, Associate Professor Bilveer Singh of the National University of Singapore says he expects the cost of living to be a major political issue next year, due to the uneven distribution of wealth and economic uncertainties.

While the Government has managed the cost of living issue through packages to help the lower-income group, the middle class is feeling squeezed - and this is a key group politically, he notes.

Nominated MP Randolph Tan, an economist at the Singapore University of Social Sciences, adds that people may question the need for a tax hike when a major economy like the United States can appear to afford to do the opposite.

While raising taxes is clearly an unpalatable idea, providing a longer runway before any hike is implemented would help prepare those who are affected, he says, adding: "If there is anything we can learn from the debate on the water price hikes, it is that the apparent speed with which the decision was imposed brought a very negative reaction."

Uncertainty over who will be the fourth PM (From left) Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat, Minister in the PMO Chan Chun Sing and Minister for Education (Higher Education and Skills) Ong Ye Kung are seen as potential PM candidates.

As the nation approaches the midpoint of the current term of government, speculation is rife as to who is set to take the reins from Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong as Singapore's fourth prime minister.

In September, then Minister for Social and Family Development Tan Chuan-Jin left the Cabinet to take up his current role as Speaker of Parliament, which is not a key policymaking position.

Mr Tan had been seen as a core member of the fourth-generation (4G) leadership and a possible candidate for the top post, alongside Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat, Minister in the Prime Minister's Office Chan Chun Sing, National Development Minister Lawrence Wong, Minister for Education (Higher Education and Skills) Ong Ye Kung and Minister for Education (Schools) Ng Chee Meng.

Next year, a major Cabinet reshuffle is expected and all eyes will be on the post of deputy prime minister.

The finance minister and defence minister roles are also key portfolios.

PM Lee, who took up his role in 2004, was deputy prime minister for 14 years before that, from 1990.

Emeritus Senior Minister Goh Chok Tong was first deputy prime minister for five years, from 1985 to 1990, before taking over from founding Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew.

"Moreover, whoever takes over the heavy responsibility of being PM will also need to ensure he or she will be able to connect with the citizens as well as to prove his or her competence on the regional and international front," he says, adding that 4G ministers could be tasked with managing Asean matters as Singapore takes over the leadership of the grouping next year.

While the group of potential prime ministers may not have as much experience in the Cabinet as their predecessors - given that PM Lee has said he intends to step down by 2022 - Dr Norshahril Saat, a fellow at ISEAS - Yusof Ishak Institute, says PM Lee has devised other mechanisms to coach them, such as the addition of more coordinating ministers who can mentor younger ministers.

"The next PM should have a major role in the Cabinet, as a full minister, for some 10 years.

"I hope the fourth-generation leader will be someone who will fight for the people, and be more transparent about government processes and governance," says Mr Sang, who is self-employed.

Some unhappiness over reserved election President Halimah Yacob taking the oath of office, flanked by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon.

This year's election was the first to be reserved for Malay candidates following changes passed by Parliament last year to ensure the highest office of the land reflects Singapore's multiracial society.

Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has said that he knew the reserved presidential election would be unpopular, and would cost his party votes.

He adds that on a more positive note, the reserved election has made Singaporeans more aware of the presidency and its roles and responsibilities.

The issue has become a political hot potato because it irritates many Singaporeans, not just commuters, as breakdowns have the potential to impact work and the economy, and tarnish the Singapore brand, says East Asian Institute senior research fellow Lam Peng Er.

Beyond that, political observers tell Insight that SMRT's woes, if not resolved, have wider implications on how Singaporeans view the Government's ability to keep the country running smoothly and efficiently.

"The social compact in Singapore is the trade-off of Western political freedoms and the assertion of individual rights for good governance and political stability, so we expect things to run like clockwork here," says Dr Lam.

The issue of reliability will continue to play on people's minds next year, says NUS political scientist Reuben Wong, adding it casts a spotlight on the whole of Singapore Inc.

Steamed up over water price hike Madam Yeong Soh Yeng, a freelance pre-school teacher, and her Indonesian maid, Madam Fatimah Dulhadi, save water from the washing machine's rinse cycles to wash the floors and flush toilets.

Singapore's first water price hike in 17 years was hotly debated after it was announced in the Budget in February.

After an increase on July 1 this year and a second on July 1 next year, water prices will be 30 per cent higher, which the Government said is necessary due to rising costs and for investments in water infrastructure for production and sewerage.

To reduce water wastage, national water agency PUB has also been replacing water closets in eligible households with newer models that can cut water use by half.

Also, government feedback arm Reach found that 43 per cent of those it polled about the Budget disagreed that it was reasonable to increase water prices to fund higher costs of production and encourage conservation.

"If electricity prices increase, I can decide to use the fan instead of the air-conditioner, but there's nothing much else we can do about water, we can't not drink water or not wash our hands."

Part-time banquet worker Chung Soon Seng, 59, is worried about prices going up across the board when businesses face higher water costs.

But not all Singaporeans seem to feel the same way, and Singapore University of Social Sciences economist Randolph Tan says that some have questioned the need to increase prices.

This is despite the fact that pricing water too low may result in wasteful behaviour - which in turn threatens long-term water security.

Associate Professor Tan, who is a Nominated MP, also says that while the first round of the increase has been implemented well so far, debate on the issue will likely be revived next year when the second phase kicks in.

Political analyst Mustafa Izzuddin adds that while the water price hike is unlikely to be a political hot potato on its own next year, related issues, like rising cost of living and social inequality, will be hot.

['INSIGHT', 'POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT', 'TAXATION']

***

#439549 Price of plenty: How past success slows present change

http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/price-of-plenty-how-past-success-slows-present-change

By: --

17 Dec 2017, 05:00 Hours

As a journalist in a media industry hit hard by disruption, I have not exactly rushed to embrace change.

A friend from the training sector who has helped firms undergoing major change said for those affected, it can feel like they are going through the stages of grief : reject change as they see no need for it; resist change as it is unsettling and difficult; being open to change but confused as to what it means for them; being ready to embrace change and keen to help lead it.

Because a large part of the work in leading change is persuading people of the need to leave behind a status quo they find comfortable and comforting, so as to move somewhere strange and unfamiliar, and more often than not make sacrifices along the way as well.

Professor John Kotter of Harvard Business School, who has studied organisational change for decades, uses a fable to illustrate the challenge of change and how to overcome it.

The story then goes on to describe the huge effort to persuade other penguins in the colony of the urgent need to change - fast!

Not all the elders believed Fred, so they put together a separate smaller group to lead the change.

They then communicated the vision to the rest of the colony, neutralised naysayers like a penguin named NoNo and empowered other penguins to help bring change about.

To be honest, there are days when I am pessimistic and worry that Singapore Inc will not make it.

I recall inspiring stories of corporate turnaround - GE, Apple, Nissan and Lego, to name a few.

Since this is a fable, it has a happy ending in which the penguins not only move to a bigger, better iceberg, but also retool their culture so as to become more open and ready to adapt to future change.

Big change does not happen easily - not in businesses, not in school systems, not in nations.

"Even if an objective observer can clearly see that costs are too high, or products are not good enough, or shifting customer requirements are not being adequately addressed, needed change can still stall because of inwardly focused cultures, paralysing bureaucracy, parochial politics, a low level of trust, lack of teamwork, arrogant attitudes, a lack of leadership in middle management, and the general human fear of the unknown," Prof Kotter writes in his book Leading Change.

What is also telling is Prof Kotter's diagnosis that change often fails because of a lack of leadership.

"Leadership is a set of processes that creates organisations in the first place or adapts them to significantly changing circumstances.

When I speak of leadership, I am not holding out for some strong man - or woman - with the smarts and charisma to push through major change on his or her own.

I am talking about having a critical mass of people who believe that it is possible to succeed at change, brave enough to take the necessary risks and committed enough to work long hours to see it through.

Are businesses changing fast enough?

To be honest, there are days when I am pessimistic and worry that Singapore Inc will not make it.

I recall inspiring stories of corporate turnaround - GE, Apple, Nissan and Lego, to name a few.

Those who would lead change cannot tarry.

['DISRUPTION', 'ECONOMIC GROWTH', 'SINGAPORE CONNECT']

***

