
WORLD
=====

#443666 North American revellers welcome 2018, rounding up global New Year celebrations  

http://www.straitstimes.com/world/revellers-in-europe-welcome-2018-freezing-new-york-set-to-ring-in-the-new-year

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 02:44 Hours

NEW YORK (AFP) – A frigid North America closed out the world’s New Year celebrations on Monday (Jan 1), after a chilly Europe followed Asia and Australasia in nursing a Jan 1 hangover.

They were subjected to tight security measures, with the “Crossroads of the World” seeing its largest security perimeter in history – a focus around the world due to fears that crowds could be targets for vehicle and other terror attacks.

Bikinis were the last thing on the minds of North American revellers, who followed Rio and South America in welcoming the New Year.

They were surrounded by police under extra-tight security following two recent Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) group-inspired attacks in the city.

TOUGHEST SECURITY IN YEARS In London, more than 100,000 ticket-holders gazed up at spectacular fireworks from the banks of the River Thames, before dancing to “Auld Lang Syne.” Keeping with tradition, Big Ben in the Houses of Parliament rang in Britain’s new year.

In Britain, despite the capital being hit by four terror attacks in 2017, Scotland Yard said it had fewer police officers on the streets of London than during last year’s event.

Meanwhile, tens of thousands of people participated in Edinburgh’s Hogmanay celebrations – one of the world’s biggest street parties.

AROUND THE WORLD Three hours earlier, Australia had rung in the New Year with a magnificent show of rainbow-coloured fireworks cascading from Sydney Harbor Bridge.

LOOKING AHEAD TO 2018 ISIS’ defeat in Iraq and Syria was one of the year’s major stories in 2017, but terrorism remains a threat.

“We are MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN, and much faster than anyone thought possible!” Trump said in a tweet to close out the year.

['AUSTRALIA', "NEW YEAR'S DAY"]

***

#443694 2 injured, thousands flee as fireworks malfunction at Australian beach

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/australianz/2-injured-thousands-flee-as-fireworks-malfunction-at-australian-beach

By: Lydia Lam

01 Jan 2018, 14:17 Hours

Thousands of revellers fled and two people suffered minor injuries after a fireworks malfunction at a beach party in Australia on New Year's Eve (Dec 31), Australian media said.

A crowd had gathered at Terrigal Beach in New South Wales on Sunday night for the New Year's Eve fireworks from 9pm, News.com.au reported.

The police said the two men suffered minor injuries when the barge caught fire at 9pm, sending many fireworks into the air all at once, ABC.net.au reported.

['AUSTRALIA', "NEW YEAR'S DAY"]

***

#443679 North Korea's Kim Jong Un says 'open to dialogue' with South Korea, will only use nukes if threatened

http://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/north-korean-leader-kim-jong-un-says-nuclear-launch-button-on-his-desk

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 09:21 Hours

SEOUL (REUTERS, AFP) – Kim Jong Un on Monday (Jan 1) warned the United States that he has a “nuclear button” on his desk ready for use if North Korea is threatened, but offered an olive branch to South Korea, saying he was “open to dialogue” with Seoul.

After a year dominated by fiery rhetoric and escalating tensions over North Korea’s nuclear weapons programme, Kim used his televised New Year’s Day speech to call for lower military tensions on the Korean peninsula and improved ties with the South.

South Korean President Moon Jae In has said North Korea’s participation will ensure safety of the Pyeongchang Olympics and proposed last month that Seoul and Washington postpone large military drills that the North denounces as a rehearsal for war until after the Games.

North Korea tested intercontinental ballistic missiles and conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test in September in defiance of international warnings and sanctions, raising fears of a new conflict on the Korean peninsula.

Despite increased international sanctions imposed over the weapons programme, North Korea made progress in areas like fabrics, shoes and tractors, Kim said.

While Kim is keen to declare his weapons programme a success, he is unlikely to completely end his contentious testing regime, said Scott LaFoy, a ballistic missile analyst at the website NK Pro, which monitors North Korea.

Kim seems likely to tone down his weapons testing at least ahead of the Olympics, said Nam Sung Wook, a North Korea expert at Korea University in Seoul.

“Without launching missiles and conducting a nuclear test, North Korea will be in the spotlight just by attending the Winter Olympics.”

['NORTH KOREA', 'KIM JONG UN', 'US FOREIGN POLICY']

***

#443696 Ten people killed in Iran unrest on Sunday -state television

http://www.straitstimes.com/world/middle-east/protests-flare-up-in-iran-after-rouhani-calls-for-calm

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 15:00 Hours

DUBAI (REUTERS) - Ten people were killed during street protests in Iran on Sunday, state television said on Monday (Jan 1).

The nationwide protests have drawn in tens of thousands of people and represent the boldest challenge to Iran's leadership since pro-reform unrest in 2009.

"In the events of last night, unfortunately, a total of about 10 people were killed in several cities," state television said while showing footage of damage from the demonstrations.

Unsigned statements posted on social media urged Iranians to demonstrate again in the capital Teheran and 50 other urban centres.

Two people were shot dead in the southwestern town of Izeh on Sunday and several others were injured, ILNA news agency quoted a member of parliament as saying.

Police in the centre of Teheran fired water cannon on Sunday to try to disperse demonstrators, according to pictures on social media.

Demonstrations turned violent in Shahin Shahr in central Iran.

Videos showed protesters attacking the police, turning over a car and setting it on fire.

Protesters in Khorramabad in western Iran shouted: "Khamenei, shame on you, leave the country alone!"

"Iran, the Number One State of Sponsored Terror with numerous violations of Human Rights occurring on an hourly basis, has now closed down the Internet so that peaceful demonstrators cannot communicate.

['IRAN', 'PROTESTS']

***

#443703 For Trump, a glittering gala ends a winter vacation rooted in routine

http://www.straitstimes.com/world/united-states/for-trump-a-glittering-gala-ends-a-winter-vacation-rooted-in-routine

By: --

01 Jan 2018, 15:48 Hours

WEST PALM BEACH, Florida (NYTIMES) - As he walked down the red carpet to begin his New Year's Eve celebrations Sunday night (Dec 31), President Donald Trump stopped to predict "a tremendous year" ahead.

Before the president arrived - flanked by his 11-year-old son, Barron, and his wife, Melania - a string of guests decked out in jewels, fur and sequins had streamed in, having paid hundreds of dollars each to celebrate with the president and his family.

"Donald Trump knows that he will not be measured on how much time he spent here," said Christopher Ruddy, chief executive of Newsmax Media and a longtime confidant.

But Trump's pattern of private phone calls and meetings, golf course mornings and private club evenings appeared far more relaxed than the vacation habits of his immediate predecessor, Barack Obama, who in 2015 spent a day crisscrossing a Hawaiian island to socialise with family and friends, go to the beach with his daughters and visit his grandfather's grave.

And compared with the explosive news announcements that often drove coverage during his predecessor's Christmas vacations - implementing sanctions against North Korea in late 2014, and last year, retaliating against Russia for its meddling in the presidential election - the news this time has been fuelled primarily by Trump's words instead of his actions.

Before the celebration Sunday, the president jabbed at some of his favourite targets even amid his holiday Twitter greetings as he wished "friends, supporters, enemies, haters, and even the very dishonest Fake News Media, a Happy and Healthy New Year."

Here at Mar-a-Lago, the property the president refers to as the "winter White House," Trump is often without aides and at home among his people, mingling and tweeting.

On Thursday, Trump sat down for 30 minutes with a New York Times reporter who approached him in the middle of lunch at the Trump International Golf Club.

And Saturday, Trump reached out to a group he affectionately refers to as his "bridge people" - the clump of supporters who religiously gather on the bridge corner near Mar-a-Lago every day they know the president is there.

They were soon followed by Trump's sons Eric, who arrived with his wife, Lara, and Donald Trump Jr, who brought one of his sons.

['DONALD TRUMP', 'US POLITICS']

***

